---PAGE 1---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 1
PACP: Priority-Aware Collaborative Perception
for Connected and Autonomous Vehicles
Zhengru Fang, Senkang Hu, Haonan An, Yuang Zhang, Jingjing Wang, Hangcheng Cao,
Xianhao Chen, Member, IEEE and Yuguang Fang, Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—Surrounding perceptions are quintessential for safe driving for connected and autonomous vehicles (CAVs), where the
Bird’s Eye View has been employed to accurately capture spatial relationships among vehicles. However, severe inherent limitations of
BEV, like blind spots, have been identified. Collaborative perception has emerged as an effective solution to overcoming these
limitations through data fusion from multiple views of surrounding vehicles. While most existing collaborative perception strategies
adopt a fully connected graph predicated on fairness in transmissions, they often neglect the varying importance of individual vehicles
due to channel variations and perception redundancy. To address these challenges, we propose a novel Priority-Aware Collaborative
Perception (P ACP) framework to employ a BEV-match mechanism to determine the priority levels based on the correlation between
nearby CAVs and the ego vehicle for perception. By leveraging submodular optimization, we find near-optimal transmission rates, link
connectivity, and compression metrics. Moreover, we deploy a deep learning-based adaptive autoencoder to modulate the image
reconstruction quality under dynamic channel conditions. Finally, we conduct extensive studies and demonstrate that our scheme
significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art schemes by 8.27% and 13.60%, respectively, in terms of utility and precision of the
Intersection over Union.
Index Terms—Connected and autonomous vehicle (CAV), collaborative perception, priority-aware collaborative perception (PACP),
data fusion, submodular optimization, adaptive compression.
✦
1 I NTRODUCTION
1.1 Background
R
ECENT advances in positioning and perception have
emerged as pivotal components in numerous cutting-
edge applications, most notably in autonomous driving [1]–
[5]. These systems heavily rely on precise positioning and
acute perception capabilities to safely and adeptly navigate
complex road environments. Many solutions exist for po-
sitioning and perception in CAVs, including inertial nav-
igation systems, high-precision GPS, cameras, and LiDAR
[6]. However, any isolated use of them may not be enough
to achieve the desired level of perception quality for safe
• Z. Fang, S. Hu, H. An, H. Cao and Y. Fang are with the Department of
Computer Science, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. E-mail:
{zhefang4-c, senkang.forest, haonanan2-c}@my.cityu.edu.hk, {hangccao,
my.fang}@cityu.edu.hk.
• Y. Zhang is with the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. E-mail: yuangz19@uw.edu.
• J. Wang is with the School of Cyber Science and Technology, Beihang
University, China, and also with Hangzhou Innovation Institute, Beihang
University, Hangzhou 310051, China. Email: drwangjj@buaa.edu.cn.
• X. Chen is with the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering,
the University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. E-mail: xchen@eee.hku.hk
(Corresponding author).
This work was supported in part by the Hong Kong SAR Government under
the Global STEM Professorship and Research Talent Hub, the Hong Kong
Jockey Club under the Hong Kong JC STEM Lab of Smart City (Ref.: 2023-
0108), and the Hong Kong Innovation and Technology Commission under
InnoHK Project CIMDA. The work of Jingjing Wang was partly supported by
the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No. 62222101,
Beijing Natural Science Foundation under Grant No. L232043 and No.
L222039, and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities.
The work of X. Chen was supported in part by HKU-SCF FinTech Academy
R&D Funding.
driving. In contrast, the Bird’s Eye View (BEV) stands out as
a more holistic approach. By integrating data from multiple
sensors and cameras placed around a vehicle, BEV offers
a comprehensive, potentially 360-degree view of a vehicle’s
surroundings, offering a more contextually rich understand-
ing of its environment [7]. However, most BEV-aided per-
ception designs have predominantly concentrated on single-
vehicle systems. Such an approach may not be enough
in high-density traffic scenarios, where unobservable blind
spots caused by road obstacles or other vehicles remain a
significant design challenge. Therefore, collaborative per-
ception has become a promising candidate for autonomous
driving. To mitigate the limitations of the single-vehicle
systems, we can leverage multiple surrounding CAVs to
obtain a more accurate BEV prediction via multi-sensor
fusion [8].
To further reduce the risks of blind spots in BEV
prediction, collaborative perception is adapted to enable
multiple vehicles to share more complementary surround-
ing information with each other through vehicle-to-vehicle
(V2V) communications [9]. This framework intrinsically
surmounts several inherent constraints tied to single-agent
perception, including occlusion and long-range detection
limitation. Similar designs have been observed in a variety
of practical scenarios, including communication-assisted au-
tonomous driving within the realm of vehicle-to-everything
[10], multiple aerial vehicles for accuracy perception [11],
and multiple underwater vehicles deployed in search and
tracking operations [12]–[14].
In this emerging field of autonomous driving, the cur-
rent predominant challenge is how to make a trade-off
between perception accuracy and communication resource
arXiv:2404.06891v3  [cs.NI]  21 Aug 2024

---PAGE 2---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 2
allocation. Given the voluminous perception outputs (such
as point clouds and consecutive RGB image sequences), the
data transmission for CAVs demands substantial communi-
cation bandwidth. Such requirements often run into capac-
ity bottleneck. As per the KITTI dataset [15], a single frame
from 3-D Velodyne laser scanners encompasses approxi-
mately 100,000 data points, where the smallest recorded
scenario has 114 frames, aggregating to an excess of 10
million data points. Thus, broadcasting such extensive data
via V2V communications amongst a vast array of CAVs
becomes a daunting task. Therefore, it is untenable to solely
emphasize the perception efficiency enhancement without
considering the overhead on V2V communications. Thereby,
some existing studies propose various communication-
efficient collaboration frameworks, such as the edge-aided
perception framework [16] and the transmission scheme for
compressed deep feature map [17]. It is observed that all
these approaches can be viewed as fairness-based schemes,
i.e., each vehicle within a certain range should have a fair
chance to convey its perception results to the ego vehicle.
Among all transmission strategies used for collaborative
perception, the fairness-based scheme is the most popular
one owing to its low computational complexity.
Despite the low computational complexity, several major
design challenges still exist with the state-of-the-art fairness-
based schemes, entailing the adaptation of these perception
approaches in real-world scenarios:
1) Fairness-based schemes may lead to overlapping
data transmissions from multiple vehicles, causing
unnecessary duplications and bandwidth wastage.
2) Fairness-based schemes cannot inherently prioritize
perception results from closer vehicles, which may
be more critical than those from further vehicles.
3) Without differentiating the priority of data from dif-
ferent vehicles, fairness-based schemes may block
communication channels for more crucial informa-
tion.
To address the above challenges, we conceive a priority-
aware perception framework with the BEV-match mech-
anism, which acquires the correlation between nearby
CAVs and the ego CAV . Compared with the fairness-based
schemes, the proposed approach pays attention to the bal-
ance between the correlation and sufficient extra informa-
tion. Therefore, this method not only optimizes perception
efficiency by preventing repetitive data, but also enhances
the robustness of perception under the limited bandwidth
of V2V communications.
In the context of collaborative perception, a signifi-
cant concern revolves efficient collaborative perception over
time-invariant links. The earlier research on cooperative
perception has considered lossy channels [18] and link
latency [19]. However, most existing research leans heav-
ily on the assumption of an ideal communication channel
without packet loss, overlooking the effects of fluctuating
network capacity [9]. Moreover, establishing fusion links
among nearby CAVs is a pivotal aspect that needs attention.
Existing strategies are often based on basic proximity con-
structs, neglecting the dynamic characteristics of the wire-
less channel shared among CAVs. In contrast, graph-based
optimization techniques provide a more adaptive approach,
accounting for real-world factors like signal strength and
bandwidth availability to improve network throughput.
A significant challenge in adopting these graph-based
techniques is to manage the transmission load of V2V
communications for point cloud and camera data. With the
vast amount of data produced by CAVs, it is crucial to
compress this data. Spatial redundancy is usually addressed
by converting raw high-definition data into 2D matrix form.
To tackle temporal redundancy, video-based compression
techniques are applied. However, traditional compression
techniques, such as JPEG [20] and MPEG [21], are not always
ideal for time-varying channels. This highlights the rele-
vance of modulated autoencoders and data-driven learning-
based compression methods that outperform traditional
methods. These techniques excel at encoding important
features while discarding less relevant ones. Moreover, the
adoption of fine-tuning strategies improves the quality of
reconstructed data, whereas classical techniques often face
feasibility issues.
1.2 State-of-the-Art
In this subsection, we review the related literature of collab-
orative perception for autonomous driving with an empha-
sis on their perceptual algorithms, network optimization,
and redundant information reduction.
V2V collaborative perception : V2V collaborative per-
ception combines the sensed data from different CAVs
through fusion networks, thereby expanding the perception
range of each CAV and mitigating troubling design prob-
lems like blind spots. For instance, Chen et al. [22] proposed
the early fusion scheme, which fuses raw data from different
CAVs, Wanget al. [17] employed intermediate fusion, fusing
intermediate features from various CAVs, and Rawashdeh
et al. [23] utilized late fusion, combining detection outputs
from different CAVs to accomplish collaborative percep-
tion tasks. Although these methods show promising re-
sults under ideal conditions, in real-world environments,
where the channel conditions are highly variable, directly
applying the same fusion methods often results in unsatis-
factory outcomes. Transmitting raw-level sensing data has
distinct advantages: it supports multiple downstream tasks,
enhances data fusion accuracy, and ensures future-proof
flexibility for evolving autonomous driving technologies.
Therefore, we can combine the benefits of early fusion and
intermediate fusion by utilizing adaptive compression for
raw data transmission.
Network optimization : High throughput can ensure
more efficient data transmissions among CAVs, thereby
potentially improving the IoU of cooperative perception
systems. Lyu et al. [24] proposed a fully distributed graph-
based throughput optimization framework by leveraging
submodular optimization. Nguyen et al. [25] designed a
cooperative technique, aiming to enhance data transmission
reliability and improve throughput by successively selecting
relay vehicles from the rear to follow the preceding vehicles.
Ma et al. [26] developed an efficient scheme for the through-
put optimization problem in the context of highly dynamic
user requests. However, the intricate relationship between
throughput maximization and IoU has not been thoroughly
investigated in the literature. This gap in the research moti-

---PAGE 3---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 3
TABLE 1: CONTRASTING OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE LITERATURE
[32] [3] [2] [18] [11] [16] [17] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [33] Proposed work
BEV evaluation ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Multi-agent selection ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Data compression ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Lossy communications ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Priority mechanism ✓ ✓
Coverage optimization ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Throughput optimization ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
vates us to conduct more comprehensive studies on the role
of throughput optimization in V2V cooperative perception.
Vehicular data compression: For V2V collaborative per-
ception, participating vehicles compress their data before
transmitting it to the ego vehicle to reduce transmission
latency. However, existing collaborative frameworks often
employ very simple compressors, such as the naive encoder
consisting of only one convolutional layer used in V2VNet
[17]. Such compressors cannot meet the requirement of
transmission latency under 100 ms in practical collaborative
tasks [27]. Additionally, current views suggest that compres-
sors composed of neural networks outperform the compres-
sors based on traditional algorithms [28]. However, these
studies are typically focused on general data compression
tasks and lack research on adaptive compressors suitable
for practical scenarios in V2V collaborative perception.
Priority-Aware Perception Schemes: Priority-aware per-
ception schemes have been advanced significantly, yet they
have also encountered limitations in dynamic environments.
Liao et al. ’s model uses an attention mechanism for tra-
jectory prediction, effectively assigning dynamic weights
but overlooking communication costs and information re-
dundancy [29]. Similarly, Wen et al. ’s queue-based traffic
scheduling enhances throughput but struggles with real-
time data synchronization, which is critical for systems
like autonomous vehicles [30]. Additionally, studies on
edge-assisted visual simultaneous localization and mapping
(SLAM) introduce a task scheduler that improves mapping
precision but fails to account for the crucial role of channel
quality in perception accuracy and throughput [31].
Our framework mitigates these issues by introducing an
adaptive mechanism that adjusts priorities based on real-
time channel quality and analytics. This approach not only
curtails unnecessary data processing and communication
but also enhances raw-level sensing data fusion and sys-
tem responsiveness, thereby addressing the core challenges
identified in previous studies.
1.3 Our Contributions
To address the weakness of prior works and tackle the afore-
mentioned design challenges, we design our Priority-Aware
Collaborative Perception (PACP) framework for CAVs and
evaluate its performance on a CAV simulation platform
CARLA [34] with OPV2V dataset [35]. Experimental results
verify PACP’s superior performance, with notable improve-
ments in utility value and the average precision of Intersec-
tion over Union (AP@IoU) compared with existing methods.
To summarize, in this paper, we have made the following
major contributions:
• We introduce the first-ever implementation of a
priority-aware collaborative perception framework
that incorporates a novel BEV-match mechanism for
autonomous driving. This mechanism uniquely bal-
ances communication overhead with enhanced per-
ception accuracy, directly addressing the inefficien-
cies found in prior works.
• Our two-stage optimization framework is the first
to apply submodular theory in this context, allow-
ing the joint optimization of transmission rates, link
connectivity, and compression ratio. This innovation
is particularly adept at overcoming the challenges
of data-intensive transmissions under dynamic and
constrained channel capacities.
• We have integrated a deep learning-based adaptive
autoencoder into PACP , supported by a new fine-
tuning mechanism at roadside units (RSUs). The
experimental evaluation reveals that this approach
surpasses the state-of-the-art methods, especially in
utility value and AP@IoU.
Our new contributions are better illustrated in Table 1.
2 F AIRNESS OR PRIORITY ?
In this section, we show some practical difficulties with
fairness-based collaborative perception for CAVs and also
briefly demonstrate the superiority of adopting a priority-
aware perception framework.
2.1 Background of Two Schemes
Fairness-based scheme : This scheme aims to achieve fair-
ness in resource allocation among different CAVs. The Jain’s
fairness index is used to measure fairness: [33]:
𝐽 = (Í𝑛
𝑖=1 𝑥𝑖)2
𝑛 ·Í𝑛
𝑖=1 𝑥2
𝑖
, (1)
where 𝑛 is the total number of nodes and 𝑥𝑖 is the resource
allocated to the 𝑖-th node. A perfect fairness index of 1
indicates equal resource allocation. Two common fairness
schemes are subchannel-fairness (equal spectrum resources)
and throughput-fairness (equal transmission rates).
Priority-aware scheme : Unlike fairness-based schemes,
this scheme assigns different priority levels to CAVs based
on the importance and quality of their data. The ego vehicle
gives higher priority to CAVs with better channel conditions
and more crucial perception data. Existing works have in-
vestigated several popular priority factors as priority, such
as link latency [36] and routing situation [37]. This approach
mitigates the negative impact of "poisonous" CAVs with

---PAGE 4---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 4
CAV 1 CAV 2 CAV 3
0
5
10
15
20
25Throughput (Mbps)
2.02
9.63
23.85
0
50
100
150
200
250
Bandwidth (MHz)
66.67 66.67 66.67
Throughput
Bandwidth
(a) Subchannel-fairness scheme
CAV 1 CAV 2 CAV 3
0
2
4
6
8
10Throughput (Mbps)
2.87
5.75
9.80
0
50
100
150
200
250
Bandwidth (MHz)
192.0
4.0 4.0
Throughput
Bandwidth (b) Throughput-fairness scheme
 (c) Priority-aware perception scheme
Fig. 1: The bandwidth and throughput allocation by different schemes within V2V network.
Camera 0 Camera 1
Camera 2 Camera 3
(a) Camera perception by ego
CAV
Priority Subchannel-
 fairness
Throughput-
 fairness
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0AP@IoU
0.685
0.603
0.499
Dynamic AP@IoU
(b) AP@IoU vs. Different schemes
Fig. 2: Camera data and different types of AP@IoU.
poor channel conditions or less relevant data, thus enhanc-
ing the overall system efficiency. Compared to the fairness-
based scheme, the advantages of priority-aware perception
can be summarized as follows:
• Transmission Efficiency: By prioritizing CAVs with
better data quality and channel conditions, the
priority-aware scheme optimally allocates spectrum
resources, ensuring efficient transmission.
• Improved Prediction: This scheme reduces the influ-
ence of poisonous data, leading to more accurate BEV
predictions by focusing on high-quality perception
inputs.
• Dynamic Adaptability : The priority-aware scheme
dynamically adjusts to changing channel conditions
and task requirements, maintaining robust perfor-
mance in diverse environments.
2.2 An Illustrative Motivating Example
To understand the limitations of fairness-based schemes,
we compare their resource allocation and BEV prediction
against an ad hoc priority-aware scheme. Fig. 1 illustrates
the bandwidth and throughput allocation of three schemes
in a V2V network, with a total bandwidth of 200 MHz.
In the subchannel-fairness scheme (Fig. 1(a)), each CAV
receives an equal amount of spectrum resources, leading to
inefficient utilization, especially with poor channel condi-
tions. The throughput-fairness scheme (Fig. 1(b)) equalizes
transmission rates by allocating more resources to weaker
channels, but it can still result in suboptimal BEV predic-
tions. For instance, if a CAV has extremely poor channel
quality (e.g., CAV 1), even the allocated bandwidth may be
insufficient, reducing perception performance.
In contrast, the priority-aware perception scheme (Fig.
1(c)) dynamically adjusts the priority weights of each CAV
based on channel resources, perception accuracy, and cover-
age. For example, CAV 1, with the worst channel condition,
is assigned with the lowest priority and its data is discarded.
This approach ensures that critical and high-quality data
from CAVs with the best channel conditions and/or prox-
imity to the ego vehicle are transmitted with minimal loss
and latency, significantly improving BEV predictions. Fig.
2(b) demonstrates the superior performance of the priority-
aware scheme, with the dynamic AP@IoU metric rising to
0.685. Thus, this ad hoc priority-aware scheme outperforms
fairness-based methods by selectively collaborating with the
most valuable CAVs, leading to enhanced BEV predictions.
However, how to design an effective priority-aware scheme
is critical, which motivates this research.
3 S YSTEM MODEL
In this section, we present a V2X-aided collaborative percep-
tion system with CAVs, including the system’s structure,
channel modeling, and the constraints of computational
capacity and energy. The key notations are listed in the
Table 2.
3.1 System Overview
We consider a V2X-aided collaborative perception system
with multiple CAVs and RSUs, which is shown in Fig. 3. In
our scenario, CAVs can be divided into two types. The first
type is the nearby CAVs (indexes 1-3), which monitor the
surrounding traffic with cameras and share their perception
results with other CAVs. The second type is the ego CAV
(index 0), which fuses the camera data from the nearby
CAVs with its own perception results. As shown in Fig. 3,
the ego CAV 0 is covered with the parked car that the ego
CAV’s own camera cannot observe the incoming pedestrian
from the blind spot. Through the collaborative perception
scheme, the ego CAV merges compressed data from CAVs
2 and 3, i.e., 𝑠20 = 𝑠30 = 1, which catch the existence
of the pedestrian. However, it is unnecessary to connect
all CAVs together since the bandwidth and subchannel
resources are limited. Therefore, the ego CAV can determine
the importance of each nearby CAV by the priority-aware
mechanism, depending on CAVs’ positions and channel
states. For example, the ego CAV is disconnected from CAV
1, because it fails to provide enough environmental percep-
tion information, i.e., 𝑠10 = 0. For the sake of maximizing

---PAGE 5---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 5
Parked car Pedestrian
blind spots
RSU
CAV 1
CAV 2
CAV 3
Ego CAV 0
Camera perception
(𝑠𝑠10 = 0, 𝑑𝑑10, 𝑟𝑟10)
(𝑠𝑠30 = 1, 𝑑𝑑30, 𝑟𝑟30)
(𝑠𝑠20 = 0, 𝑑𝑑20, 𝑟𝑟20)
Compressed camera data
Disconnect
Fig. 3: Overview of V2X-aided collaborative perception sys-
tem.
TABLE 2: Summary of Key Notations
Notation Definition
𝑁 The total number of vehicles in the network
𝐾 The number of orthogonal sub-channels for the
whole V2V networks
𝑊 The total bandwidth of the V2V networks
𝐶𝑖 𝑗 The channel capacity between the 𝑖th transmitter
and the 𝑗th receiver
D The matrix of transmission rates
𝑟𝑖 𝑗 The adaptive compression ratio
𝐸𝑡
𝑖 𝑗 The energy bounds for data transmission
𝐸 𝑐
𝑗 The energy consumption bounds for computation
𝐸𝑇
𝑗 The energy consumption threshold
𝑃𝑡 Transmission power of each CAV
𝐹𝑗 CPU capacity of CAV 𝑗
𝛽 Model complexity parameter depending on the ar-
chitecture of the neural networks
𝐴 𝑗 Local data generation rate per second at CAV 𝑗
P𝑖 𝑗 The priority weight between two CAVs
I ( S𝑖 ) The total area covered by the union of perceptual
regions of vehicles
Usum The weighted utility function for the network
Ur The sub-utility function for perception quality
Up The sub-utility function for the perceptual regions
( 𝜔1, 𝜔2 ) Weights for perception quality and region
(𝑟min, 𝑟max ) Compression ratio range
AP@IoU, the ego CAV obtains the near-optimal solution
in terms of the transmission rate 𝑑𝑖 𝑗 and the compression
ratio 𝑟𝑖 𝑗 at each time slot. Additionally, we deploy several
RSUs to achieve a fine-tuning compression strategy, which
is detailed in Sec. 5.4.
3.2 Channel Modeling and System Constraints
Consider the V2V network architecture G = (V, E), where
V = (𝑣 1, 𝑣2, ..., 𝑣 𝑁 ) denotes CAVs and E is the set of
links between them. As per 3GPP specifications for 5G
[38], V2V networks adopt Cellular Vehicle-to-Everything
(C-V2X) with Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex-
ing (OFDM). The total bandwidth 𝑊 is split into 𝐾 or-
thogonal sub-channels. Each sub-channel capacity is 𝐶𝑖 𝑗 =
𝑊
𝐾 log2

1 + 𝑃𝑡 ℎ𝑖 𝑗
𝑁0 𝑊
𝐾

, where 𝑃𝑡 represents the transmit power,
ℎ𝑖 𝑗 denotes the channel gain from the 𝑖th transmitter to the
𝑗th receiver, and 𝑁0 is the noise power spectral density.
Additionally, let 𝑠𝑖 𝑗 = 1 indicate the presence of the
directional link from CAV 𝑖 to ego CAV 𝑗. Such a link is
denoted as (𝑖, 𝑗 ) ∈ S . The set S represents the collection of
all established links in the network. When 𝑠𝑖 𝑗 = 1, CAV 𝑣 𝑖 is
capable of sharing data with the ego CAV 𝑣 𝑗. Conversely,
if 𝑠𝑖 𝑗 = 0, it implies the disconnected mode of the link
(𝑖, 𝑗 ). However, the number of directed links potentially
increase at a rate of 𝑁2 with the number of CAVs, possibly
exhausting the limited communication spectrum resources.
Therefore, the upper bound of the number of connections is
given by:
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1,𝑖≠ 𝑗
𝑁∑︁
𝑗=1
𝑠𝑖 𝑗 ≤ 𝐾. (2)
Let D =

𝑑𝑖 𝑗
	
𝑁 × 𝑁 be the matrix consisting of transmission
rates, where each element is non-negative, for ∀(𝑖, 𝑗 ) ∈ E.
Each element 𝑑𝑖 𝑗 represents the data rate without compres-
sion from vehicle 𝑣 𝑖 to vehicle 𝑣 𝑗, which is then processed
by 𝑣 𝑗. It is noteworthy that 𝑑𝑖 𝑗 satisfies:
𝑟𝑖 𝑗 𝑑𝑖 𝑗 ≤ min(𝐶𝑖 𝑗, 𝑟𝑖 𝑗 𝐴𝑖), (3)
Here, 𝑟𝑖 𝑗 ∈ ( 0, 1] denotes the adaptive compression ratio,
obtained by the compression algorithm outlined in Sec. 5.4.
𝑟𝑖 𝑗 𝑑𝑖 𝑗 represents the actual transmission rate after compres-
sion. 𝐴𝑖 signifies the amount of local perception data at
𝑣 𝑖 per second, i.e., perception data generation rate at the
location of 𝑣 𝑖. This constraint implies that the actual trans-
mission rate must be limited either by the achievable data
rate or by the locally compressed data present at vehicle 𝑣 𝑖.
Furthermore, it is observed that an inadequate compression
ratio results in a diminution in the accuracy of perception
data, while an excessively high compression ratio results
in suboptimal throughput maximization. Consequently, the
constraint for the compression ratio is defined as follows:
1⊤𝑟 𝑗, min ⪯ R 𝑗 ⪯ 1⊤𝑟 𝑗, max, (4)
where R 𝑗 =

r1 𝑗 , r2 𝑗 , ..., r𝑁 𝑗
 ⊤, R = [R1, R2, ..., R 𝑁 ]. Given
the surrounding data obtained through collaborative per-
ception, perception data from closer vehicles are more
important for perceptional detection, which has a higher
level of accuracy. Therefore, we assume that the adaptive
compression ratio for the link (𝑖, 𝑗 ) yields:
𝑟𝑖 𝑗𝑒𝐿𝑖 𝑗 ⩾ 𝜂, (5)
where 𝐿𝑖 𝑗 denotes the normalized distance between 𝑣 𝑖 and
𝑣 𝑗, and 𝜂 ∈ ( 0, 1]. It is noted that we use an exponen-
tial relationship in terms of normalized distance, because
the compression ratio of the remote area should decrease
rapidly, reducing communication overhead. Moreover, the
link establishment and data transmission rate should satisfy
the bounds of energy consumption as follows:
𝐸 𝑡
𝑖 𝑗 = 𝜏𝑡
𝑗 𝑃𝑡 𝑠𝑖 𝑗, (6)

---PAGE 6---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 6
where 𝜏𝑡
𝑗 denotes the allocated time span, and 𝑃𝑡 signifies
the transmission power. We define 𝐹𝑗 as the computational
capability of vehicle 𝑣 𝑗. The data processed by 𝑣 𝑗, which
includes its local data 𝐴 𝑗 and the data received from neigh-
boring nodes, should satisfy the following constraint:
𝐴 𝑗 +
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1,𝑖≠ 𝑗
𝑟𝑖 𝑗 𝑠𝑖 𝑗 𝑑𝑖 𝑗 ⩽ 𝐹𝑗 /𝛽, (7)
where 𝐹𝑗 /𝛽 represents the aggregate size of data processed
per second. Additionally, 𝛽 is tunable parameter depending
on the architecture of the neural networks employed in these
contexts, like the self-supervised autoencoder. The energy
consumption for computation by 𝑣 𝑗 can be determined as
follows:
𝐸 𝑐
𝑗 = ©­
«
𝐴 𝑗 +
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1,𝑖≠ 𝑗
𝑟𝑖 𝑗 𝑠𝑖 𝑗 𝑑𝑖 𝑗
ª®
¬
𝜖 𝑗 𝜏𝑐
𝑗 , (8)
where 𝜖 𝑗 denotes the energy cost per unit of input data pro-
cessed by 𝑣 𝑗’s processing unit.𝜏𝑐
𝑗 represents the duration al-
located for data processing. By imposing constraints on the
overall energy consumption, a suitable trade-off between
computing and communication can be made, facilitating
optimal operation and extending the operational longevity
of CAVs. Intuitively, the cumulative energy consumption in
our CAV system must satisfy the following constraint:
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1,𝑖≠ 𝑗

𝐸 𝑡
𝑖 𝑗 + 𝐸 𝑐
𝑖 𝑗

≤ 𝐸 𝑇
𝑗 , ( 𝑗 = 1, 2, · · ·, 𝑁), (9)
where 𝐸 𝑇
𝑗 symbolizes the energy consumption threshold for
the 𝑗th CAV group, including its nearby CAVs.
4 P RIORITY -AWARE COLLABORATIVE PERCEP -
TION ARCHITECTURE
While BEV offers a top-down view aiding CAVs in learning
relative positioning, not all data is of equal importance or
relevance [10]. Some CAV data can be unreliable due to
perception qualities, necessitating differential prioritization
in data fusion. This section proposes a priority-aware per-
ception scheme by BEV match mechanism.
4.1 Selection of Priority Weights
There exist many ways to define priority weights, such as
distance [39], channel state [40], and information redun-
dancy [41]. However, as CoBEVT is the backbone for RGB
data fusion [7], our priority weight definition is based on
the Intersection over Union (IoU) of BEV features between
adjacent CAVs. IoU is an effective metric in computer vi-
sion, especially in object detection, used to quantify the
overlap between two areas. The background of IoU can
be obtained in CoBEVT’s local attention aids in pixel-to-
pixel correspondence during object detection fusion. IoU of
the BEV features reveals the consistency in environmental
perception between CAVs. Factors like channel interfer-
ence and network congestion may cause inconsistencies.
As consistency is crucial in fusion data, inconsistencies can
lead to data misrepresentations. Hence, we design a BEV-
match mechanism by relying on IoU analysis in the next
subsection, giving preference to CAVs with closely aligned
perceptions to the ego CAV .
4.2 Procedure of Obtaining Priority Weights
The procedure of calculating priority weights can be divided
into three steps as follows:
(1) Camera perception: As shown in Fig. 4(a), the nearby
CAVs capture raw camera data 𝛤 using its four cameras.
This perception data 𝛤 is then transmitted to the ego CAV
by communication units through wireless channel. Let 𝛤𝑡 =
F (𝛤) denote the perception data received by the ego CAV ,
where F represents the function of data transmission over
the network. In reality, different data processing strategies
result in different impacts on 𝛤𝑡, such as compression and
transmission latency.
(2) Encoder & Decoder: Fig. 4(b) illustrates that upon
reception, the ego CAV uses a SinBEVT-based neural net-
work to process the single-vehicle’s RGB data [7]. This
data is transformed through an encoding-decoding process
to extract BEV features. The BEV feature transformation
is denoted by BEV = G (𝛤𝑡 ), where G captures SinBEVT’s
processing essence. In Fig. 4(c), the BEV feature depicts the
traffic scenario from a single vehicle’s perspective, with the
green dashed box marking the range of perceived moving
vehicles, and the red box indicating surrounding vehicles to
the ego CAV . In fact, SinBEVT and CoBEVT achieve real-
time performance of over 70 fps with five CAVs [7].
(3) Priority weight calculation: As shown in Fig. 4(d),
we take the ego CAV and CAV 1 as an example. Along with
their corresponding BEV perceptions BEV0 and BEV1, let the
coordinates and orientation angle of both the Ego CAV and
CAV 1 be represented as (𝑥0, 𝑦0, 𝜃0) and (𝑥1, 𝑦1, 𝜃1), respec-
tively. Firstly, we can derive the translational displacement
between Ego CAV and CAV 1: Δ𝑥 = 𝑥0 − 𝑥1, Δ𝑦 = 𝑦0 − 𝑦1 and
Δ𝜃 = 𝜃0 − 𝜃1. Accordingly, the translation matrix 𝑇 and the
rotation matrix 𝛩1 are articulated as:
𝑇10 =

1 0 Δ𝑥
0 1 Δ𝑦
0 0 1

, 𝛩10 =

cos (Δ𝜃) − sin (Δ𝜃) 0
sin (Δ𝜃) cos (Δ𝜃) 0
0 0 1

, (10)
where ˆ𝑇10 = 𝑇10 × 𝛩10 remap coordinates from BEV1 to BEV0.
Let ˆ𝛤 be a point of the BEV feature of CAV 1. Furthermore,
the transformation of a point ˆ𝛤 from the BEV perception
BEV1 to BEV 0 is denoted by ˆ𝛤′ = ˆ𝑇10 × ˆ𝛤. ˆ𝛤′ represents
the transformed coordinate in BEV 0 and the point ˆ𝛤 is
articulated in homogeneous coordinates, i.e., ˆ𝛤 = [𝑥, 𝑦, 1]𝑇.
Inspired by IoU, the metric for perceptual quality de-
pends on the intersection of the ground truth and other
predicted results. As we are mainly concerned with the
impact of an unstable channel on perceptual quality, we can
assume that the ego vehicle (CAV 0 in Fig. 5) can obtain
highly accurate locations of nearby objects, which can serve
as the ground truth. For each nearby CAV within commu-
nication range, CAV 0 can calculate priority weights only
using overlapping perceptual objects, i.e., we only calculate
priority weights based on BEV features (boxes) about objects
𝜋0, 𝜋1, 𝜋2, and 𝜋3. Specifically, the priority weight P10 is
formulated as follows:
P10 = ∥ [BEV0 ∩ BEV′
1] 𝜋 ∥2
| [BEV0] 𝜋 | , (11)
1. We assume that the rotation matrix provided is based on the
counter-clockwise rotation convention.

---PAGE 7---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 7
C AV 1
C AV 2
C AV 0
(Ego vehicle)
BEVGT
(a) Camera perception (b) Encoder & Decoder (d) Weight calculation
(c) BEV feature
BEV1
BEV2
BEV3
Multi-view features
: Wireless channel from 
other CA V to CA V 0
Priority weight
Fig. 4: Procedure for priority weight calculation. Fig. 4(a): CAVs observe surroundings with 4 cameras; CAVs 1-2 relay
RGB data to CAV 0. Figs. 4(b)-(c): BEV feature generation in CAV 0. Fig. 4(d): BEV-match mechanism determines priority
weights.
𝜋𝜋0
𝜋𝜋1
𝜋𝜋2 𝜋𝜋3
C AV 0 ’scommunication range C AV 1 ’scommunication range
Overlapping perceptual objects
C AV 0 ’s  perceptual objects
C AV1’s perceptual objects
Fig. 5: An example of determining priority weight P10.
where BEV0 denote the ego CAV’s BEV features and BEV′
1 =
ˆ𝑇10 × BEV1 signifies the transformed BEV , the operation
[·]𝜋 zeroes out pixels outside the overlapping perceptual
objects of the fused BEV’s non-zero region, ∥ · ∥ 2 measures
the square root of squared pixel values, | · | sums all pixel
values in an image, and the numerator in Eq. (11) quantifies
perception difference between data from CAVs 1 and 0, with
the denominator providing normalization. The term P in
fact captures two characteristics between the view of the
ego CAV and the transformed view of the assisting CAV
for data fusion. If two views are very close, the intersection
will be similar, the numerator in Eq. (11) will be very high,
thus P10 will be very high, which implies that the view
from CAV 1 will accurate enough to enhance the perception
quality, meaning that the view from CAV 1 can be assigned
high priority. If the view from CAV 1 is too dissimilar,
the intersection will be close to empty, implying that the
numerator in Eq. (11) will be close to 0, meaning that the
view from CAV 1 may be more misleading and should be
assigned lower priority.
Moreover, our system incorporates a gate mechanism
that effectively filters out data from CAVs whose priority
weights fall below a certain threshold. This gating pro-
cess prevents low-quality data from influencing the overall
perception quality, thereby maintaining the integrity and
accuracy of the collaborative perception system despite the
inherent instabilities in vehicular network conditions.
4.3 Utilization Maximization in Collaborative Percep-
tion
The performance of collaborative perception relies on the
quality of the V2V communication network. Hence, our aim
is to maximize the amount of perception data transmitted
under the constraints of communication resources, such as
power and bandwidth. However, given the varying contri-
butions of nearby CAVs, it is unwise to directly optimize the
total throughput of the V2V networks. Instead, we employ
the aforementioned priority weight to adjust the resources
allocated to each CAV . Moreover, one group of CAVs might
have overlapping perceptual regions. To handle this, we
leverage the union-style perception region set 𝐺𝑖, defined
as:𝐺𝑖 = Ð
𝑗 ∈ 𝐽𝑖 G 𝑗, where G 𝑗 represents the perception region
of the 𝑗th CAV , and𝐽𝑖 = { 𝑗 |𝑠 𝑗𝑖 = 1}. Here, I (S𝑖) represents
the total area covered by the union of perceptual regions of
vehicles in set 𝐽𝑖, which is mathematically expressed as:
I (S𝑖) = A
 Ø
𝑗 ∈ 𝐽𝑖
G 𝑗
!
(12)
where A (𝑋) denotes the area of a region 𝑋. The utilization
of the union of regions inherently introduces a submodu-
lar property in the coverage function. Submodularity 2 in
this context means that adding an additional CAV to a
group of vehicles with significantly overlapping regions
provides diminishing marginal gains in covered area. This
property naturally discourages the system from including
excessive overlaps in the set of actively transmitting vehi-
cles. Specifically, we exploit this submodular property by
2. The definition of submodularity can be found in Definition 3.

---PAGE 8---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 8
formulating the sub-utility function for perception quality
as Ur = Í
𝑖
Í
𝑗=1, 𝑗≠𝑖 P 𝑗𝑖 𝑠 𝑗𝑖 𝑑 𝑗𝑖 , which reflects the accuracy
and robustness of surrounding perception. Concurrently,
the sub-utility function for the perceptual regions of CAVs
is defined as Up = Í
𝑖 I (S𝑖), which represents the amount
of information collected by data fusion. To maximize both
utilities at the same time, the weighted utility function is
formulated as:
Usum (S, D) = 𝜔1Ur + 𝜔2Up
= 𝜔1
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1
𝑁∑︁
𝑗=1, 𝑗≠𝑖
P 𝑗𝑖 𝑠 𝑗𝑖 𝑑 𝑗𝑖
|                    {z                    }
Perception quality
+ 𝜔2
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1
I (S𝑖)
|       {z       }
Perceptual region
, (13)
where 𝜔1 and 𝜔2 denote the weights of perception quality
and perceptual region, respectively. The optimized variable
D =

𝑑𝑖 𝑗

𝑁 × 𝑁 is the matrix of data transmission rate. By
combining the constraints and objective function Eq. (13),
we formulate the utility function maximization problem as:
P : max
R, S, D
Usum (S, D)
s.t. (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (9),
(14)
where the constraint (2) is the upper bound of the number of
subchannels; (3) denotes the constraint of transmission rate;
(4) and (5) are the constraints of the compression ratio; (7)
and (9) are the upper bounds of the computing capacity and
transmission power, respectively. In Sec. 5, we prove that
the utility function maximization can be decomposed into
two problems, i.e., a nonlinear programming problem and
submodular optimization problem that can be solved by a
greedy algorithm with an approximation guarantee.
5 T WO-S TAGE OPTIMIZATION FRAMEWORK FOR
UTILITY MAXIMIZATION
In this section, we first want to show that the original prob-
lem P is NP-hard, making it hard to find its optimal solu-
tion within latency-sensitive systems. To find a suboptimal
solution, we conceive a two-stage optimization framework,
which decomposes P into two distinct problems: a nonlinear
programming (NLP) P1, and a submodular optimization P2.
We ascertain the optimal solution for P1 in Sec. 5.1, and
deduce a (1 − 𝑒−1)-approximation of the optimal value for
P2 using an iterative algorithm in Sec. 5.3.
5.1 Nonlinear Programming Problem Analysis
Proposition 1: For fixed D (𝑛), problem P is reducible from
Weighted Maximum Coverage Problem (WMCP). When optimiz-
ing over matrices D and R, P surpasses WMCP’s complexity,
establishing its NP-hardness.
Proof: Please refer to Appendix A. ■
According to Proposition 1, it can be concluded that the
problem P is NP-hard. Besides, it can be observed that as the
number of cooperative vehicles 𝑁 increases, the state space
of problem P exhibits double exponential growth. Specifi-
cally, with the state space represented as 2 ( 𝑁 2) × D 𝑛 × R 𝑛,
the dimensionality increases rapidly with respect to 𝑁.
For example, let D𝑛 and R𝑛 denote the discrete levels for
continuous variables D and R. We can consider a scenario
with 10 CAVs (refer to Sec. 6.2). As for the upper bound
of D is 40 Mbps, we assume a step size of 1 Mbps with a
total of D𝑛 = 40 levels. As for the compression ratio R, there
are also R𝑛 = 20 levels with an increment of 0.05 per level.
Therefore, we can obtain the state space of the problem P is
approximately 1.014 × 1033.
It is highly complicated to find the optimal solution even
when the V2V network scale is no more than 10 vehicles.
Since the control and decision of CAVs are latency-sensitive,
we have to conceive a real-time optimization solver to
address the issue of finding an optimal solution for the
NP-hard problem P. Therefore, we decompose P into two
subproblems by fixing one of the optimization variables.
Denote the link establishment in the 𝑛th round as S (𝑛−1).
We then focus on adjusting the matrices for the compression
ratio R and the data rate D. Problem P1 is expressed as:
P1 : max
R, D
Usum

S (𝑛−1) , D

s.t. (3), (4), (5),
(15a) : 𝐴 𝑗 +
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1,𝑖≠ 𝑗
𝑟𝑖 𝑗 𝑠 (𝑛−1)
𝑖 𝑗 𝑑𝑖 𝑗 ⩽ 𝐹𝑗 /𝛽,
(15b) :
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1,𝑖≠ 𝑗

𝐸 𝑡
𝑗

𝑠 (𝑛−1)
𝑖 𝑗
+ 𝐸 𝑐
𝑖 𝑗

𝑠 (𝑛−1)
𝑖 𝑗

≤ 𝐸 𝑇
𝑗 .
(15)
For 𝑗 = 1, 2, . . . , 𝑁, the sub-problem P1 is an NLP problem
due to the nonlinear constraints given by (3), (15a), and
(15b)3. While global optimization techniques like branch
and bound or genetic algorithms can be used for non-
convex problems, they are computationally demanding. Our
approach is to linearize the problem. We defineU = R ⊙ D =
𝑢𝑖 𝑗

𝑁 × 𝑁 where ⊙ is the Hadamard product and 𝑢𝑖 𝑗 = 𝑟𝑖 𝑗 𝑑𝑖 𝑗.
This linearizes the product term in the constraints. Thus, P1
is equivalently reformulated as4:
P1−1 : max
U, D
𝑁∑︁
𝑗=1
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1,𝑖≠ 𝑗
𝑠 (𝑛−1)
𝑖 𝑗 P𝑖 𝑗 𝑑𝑖 𝑗
s.t. (16a) : 𝑢𝑖 𝑗 ≤ min(𝐶𝑖 𝑗, 𝑢𝑖 𝑗 𝑑 −1
𝑖 𝑗 𝐴𝑖),
(16b) : max(𝑟 𝑗, min, 𝜂𝑒 −𝐿𝑖 𝑗 ) ≤ 𝑢𝑖 𝑗 𝑑 −1
𝑖 𝑗 ≤ 𝑟 𝑗, max,
(16c) :
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1,𝑖≠ 𝑗
𝑠 (𝑛−1)
𝑖 𝑗 𝑢𝑖 𝑗 ⩽ min(𝛾 (𝑛−1)
𝑗 , 𝜑 𝑗 ),
(16)
where we define 𝛾 (𝑛−1)
𝑗 as 𝐸𝑇
𝜖 𝑗 𝜏𝑐
𝑗
−
𝜏𝑡
𝑗 𝑃𝑡
Í𝑁
𝑖=1,𝑖≠ 𝑗 𝑠 (𝑛−1)
𝑖 𝑗
𝜖 𝑗 𝜏𝑐
𝑗
− 𝐴 𝑗 and
𝜑 𝑗 as 𝐹𝑗
𝛽 − 𝐴 𝑗. Moreover, the constraint (16c) is derived
from both (15a) and (15b). Even though we add a bilinear
equality constraint with 𝑢𝑖 𝑗, constraint (16b) remains non-
linear, thereby we cannot obtain the optimal result directly.
Given that P1−1 attempts to optimize Í𝑁
𝑗=1
Í𝑁
𝑖=1,𝑖≠ 𝑗 𝑠 (𝑛−1)
𝑖 𝑗 𝑑𝑖 𝑗,
we have:
𝑢𝑖 𝑗
𝑟 𝑗, max
≤ 𝑑𝑖 𝑗 ≤ min
(
𝐴𝑖, 𝑢𝑖 𝑗

max

𝑟 𝑗, min, 𝜂
𝑒𝐿𝑖 𝑗
 −1)
, (17)
3. This is due to the product of decision variables 𝑟𝑖 𝑗 and 𝑑𝑖 𝑗.
4. For simplicity, we omit I ( S𝑖 ), 𝜔1, and 𝜔2 in the formulation of
the first sub-problem, since those terms are independent of P1−1.

---PAGE 9---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 9
which offers an upper bound for the optimal value of P1−1.
To optimize 𝑑𝑖 𝑗, it is beneficial to focus on maximizing this
limit. Therefore, we derive a relaxed problem as follows:
P1−2 : max
U
𝑁∑︁
𝑗=1
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1,𝑖≠ 𝑗
𝑠 (𝑛−1)
𝑖 𝑗 P𝑖 𝑗𝑢𝑖 𝑗
max

𝑟 𝑗, min, 𝜂
𝑒𝐿𝑖 𝑗

s.t. (16a) and (16c),
𝑢𝑖 𝑗 = 0 if 𝑠 (𝑛−1)
𝑖 𝑗 = 0.
(18)
P1−2 is a standard linear programming solvable using tech-
niques like the simplex or interior-point methods. If the
optimal outcome of P1−2 is 𝑢 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗 , the optimal solutions for
transmission rate and adaptive compression ratio are 𝑑 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗 =
min

𝐴𝑖, 𝑢𝑖 𝑗
h
max

𝑟 𝑗, min, 𝜂
𝑒𝐿𝑖 𝑗
i −1
and 𝑟 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗 = 𝑢 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗 /𝑑 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗 , re-
spectively. Considering that 𝑑𝑖 𝑗 values are at the edges of
the feasible region, the optimal solution for P1−2 matches
that of P1−1. It is noted that 𝑢𝑖 𝑗 = 0 if 𝑠 (𝑛−1)
𝑖 𝑗 = 0 guarantees
that 𝑢𝑖 𝑗 is explicitly set to zero whenever 𝑠 (𝑛−1)
𝑖 𝑗 = 0.
5.2 Preliminaries for Submodular Optimization
Prior to delving into specific details of the other subproblem
P2, we briefly review the definition and primary character-
istics of submodularity as presented in [42].
Definition 1: (Set Function Derivative) Given a set function
𝑓 : 2 𝑉 → R, for a subset 𝑆 of 𝑉 and an element 𝑒 in 𝑉, the
discrete derivative of 𝑓 at 𝑆 concerning 𝑒 is denoted by Δ 𝑓 (𝑒|𝑆)
and defined as Δ 𝑓 (𝑒|𝑆) = 𝑓 (𝑆 ∪ {𝑒}) − 𝑓 (𝑆). If the context makes
the function 𝑓 evident, we omit the subscript, expressing it simply
as Δ(𝑒|𝑆).
Definition 2: (Monotonicity) Given a function 𝑓 : 2𝑉 → R, 𝑓
is deemed monotone if, for all 𝐴, 𝐵 ⊆ 𝑉 with 𝐴 ⊆ 𝐵, the condition
𝑓 ( 𝐴) ≤ 𝑓 (𝐵) holds.
It should be underscored that the function 𝑓 exhibits mono-
tonicity if and only if every discrete derivative maintains
a non-negative value. Specifically, for each 𝐴 ⊆ 𝑉 and any
𝑒 ∈ 𝑉, the relation Δ(𝑒| 𝐴) ≥ 0 is satisfied.
Definition 3: (Submodularity) Let 𝐸 denote a finite ground
set. A set function 𝑓 : 2 𝐸 → R is said to be normalized, non-
decreasing, and submodular if it satisfies the following properties:
1) 𝑓 (∅) = 0;
2) 𝑓 is monotone as per Definition 2;
3) For any 𝐴, 𝐵 ⊆ 𝐸, 𝑓 ( 𝐴) + 𝑓 (𝐵) ≥ 𝑓 ( 𝐴 ∪ 𝐵) + 𝑓 ( 𝐴 ∩ 𝐵);
4) For any 𝐴 ⊆ 𝐵 ⊆ 𝐸 and an element 𝑒 ∈ 𝐸 \ 𝐵, Δ 𝑓 (𝑒| 𝐴) ⩾
Δ 𝑓 (𝑒|𝐵).
In the next subsection, we prove that the objective
function possesses submodular properties. As more CAVs
share their perception results, the ego CAV tends to add
significant new information for view fusion. However, as
the number of CAV increases, each additional CAV pro-
vides less new information, i.e., Diminishing Marginal Utility.
This concept is crucial in CAVs’ scenarios, ensuring that
resources are not wasted by redundant sensors.
Algorithm 1: Greedy Algorithm for submodular
function maximization
Input: Adaptive compression ratio matrix R (𝑛), data
transmission rate D (𝑛).
Output: Output the optimal link establishment matrix S.
1: Initialization: S ← ∅, 𝑖 ← 1;
2: while 𝑖 ≤ 𝑁 do
3: 𝑠∗
𝑖 𝑗 = arg max𝑠𝑖 𝑗 ∈ S𝑛×𝑛\S Usum (S ∪ { 𝑠𝑖 𝑗 }, D (𝑛) );
4: S ← S ∪ { 𝑠∗
𝑖 𝑗 };
5: 𝑖 ← 𝑖 + 1;
6: end while
7: return S.
5.3 Submodular Analysis and Solutions
In this subsection, we first prove that the objective func-
tion of the problem P2 is a submodular function. The objec-
tive function Usum (S, D) represents the aggregated utility
of the system, incorporating both perception quality and
coverage. However, achieving an optimal solution for this
objective function is challenging due to its NP-hard nature.
As more CAVs share their perception results, the ego CAV
gains significant new information for view fusion. However,
as the number of CAVs increases, each additional CAV
provides less new information, i.e., Diminishing Marginal
Utility. This concept is crucial in CAV scenarios to ensure re-
sources are not wasted by redundant sensors. To efficiently
solve the submodular function maximization problem, we
adapt a greedy algorithm. Submodular functions exhibit the
diminishing returns property, allowing a greedy algorithm
to find a near-optimal solution. Specifically, we show that
a greedy algorithm can achieve at least  1 − 𝑒−1 of the
optimal value to solve P2 efficiently.
Proposition 2: Given that P2 characterizes the link establish-
ment problem and the data rate D = D (𝑛) is a constant matrix,
the objective function Usum (S, D (𝑛) ) defined in Eq. (13) exhibits
submodularity if Usum (S, D (𝑛) ) satisfies all the properties out-
lined in Definition 3 within Sec. 5.2.
Proof: Please refer to Appendix C. ■
With the adaptive compression ratio matrix R (𝑛) =h
𝑟 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗
i
𝑁 × 𝑁
and data transmission rate D (𝑛) =
h
𝑑 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗
i
𝑁 × 𝑁
, we
then formulate the link establishment matrix S for P2 as:
P2 : max
S
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1
©­
«
𝜔1
𝑁∑︁
𝑗=1, 𝑗≠𝑖
P 𝑗𝑖 𝑠 𝑗𝑖 𝑑 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗 + 𝜔2I (S𝑖)ª®
¬
s.t. (19a) :
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1,𝑖≠ 𝑗
𝜒 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗 𝑠𝑖 𝑗 ≤ 𝐸 𝑇
𝑗 − 𝜏𝑐
𝑗 𝜖 𝑗 𝐴 𝑗 ,
(19b) :
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1,𝑖≠ 𝑗
𝑠𝑖 𝑗𝑢 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗 ⩽ 𝜑 𝑗 and (2),
(19)
where 𝜒 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗 = 𝑢 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗 𝜖 𝑗 𝜏𝑐
𝑗 + 𝜏𝑡
𝑗 𝑃𝑡 can be obtained by the inequal-
ity constraint (9). Since the objective function Usum (S, D) is
a submodular function according to Proposition 2, P2 is a
submodular function maximization problem, which can be
solved by a greedy algorithm for near-optimal results.

---PAGE 10---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 10
Encoder Decoder
Reconstructed 
perception data
Raw camera
perception data
Roadside fine-tuning
Historical data
 Pre-trained modelRSU
CSI feedback
Wireless channel
Compression 
ratio
Channel gain
Nearby CA V Ego CA V
Fig. 6: Overall architecture of adaptive compression.
Proposition 3: Given a submodular, non-decreasing set function
Usum (S, D (𝑛) ), which yields Usum (∅, D (𝑛) ) = 0, the greedy
algorithm obtains a set S𝐺 satisfying:
Usum

S𝐺, D (𝑛)

≥

1 − 𝑒−1

max
S
Usum

S, D (𝑛)

. (20)
Proof: Please refer to Sec. II of [43]. ■
According to Proposition 3, it can be observed that
Algorithm 1 can obtain a (1 − 𝑒−1)-approximation of the
optimal value of P2. During the 𝑛th round, we update the
link establishment S (𝑛). If link (𝑖, 𝑗 ) reduces the throughput,
it is removed: S (𝑛) ← S (𝑛) \{𝑠𝑖 𝑗 }. Otherwise, it is added:
S (𝑛) ← S (𝑛) ∪ { 𝑠𝑖 𝑗 }. For P2, we iteratively adjust links until
we find an optimal solution meeting all constraints or hit
the iteration limit by relying on Algorithm 1.
This greedy approach not only ensures maximization
of the objective function Usum (S, D (𝑛) ) but also signifi-
cantly reduces computational complexity, making it highly
advantageous for real-time applications. According to the
cardinality constraint 𝐾 in (2), the time-complexity of Al-
gorithm 1 is only O (𝐾). Therefore, we can circumvent the
complexities typically associated with optimization prob-
lems by such a greedy algorithm rather than engaging in
exhaustive searches or iterative procedures, which may not
always guarantee convergence to the optimal solution.
5.4 Deep Learning-Based Adaptive Compression
The compression modules commonly employed in V2V
collaborative networks often rely on predefined fixed com-
pression ratios, such as JPEG and JPEG2000 [7]. However,
these fixed ratios are inadequate to accommodate the de-
mands of the dynamic channel conditions discussed in Sec.
5. Moreover, it has been shown that the deep learning-based
method generally offers better rate–distortion (R-D) per-
formance compared to the standard compression methods
[44]. In this section, we propose an adaptive compression
method that comprises an adaptive R-D mechanism to refine
the compression ratio, R, to align with the requirements
of dynamic channel conditions. Then, we introduce a fine-
tuning strategy to reduce temporal redundancy in V2V
transmissions by exploiting the holistic RGB frames. We first
present the main procedure of our DL-based compression
scheme as follows.
The Deep Learning-Based Compression (DBC) addresses
the challenges by using trainable parameters from training
datasets, thus offering adaptability to V2V dynamics. Under
DBC architecture, both encoder and decoder utilize convo-
lutional layers. The encoder transforms the input image x
into a latent representation, z = 𝑓 (x; 𝜃), with transformation
parameters 𝜃 learned from training. The decoder uses a
distinct parameter set 𝜉 for reconstruction: ˜z = 𝐻 (z; 𝜉). ˆ x
is the reconstruction image from the decoder. The training
objective is to minimize:
arg min
𝜃 , 𝜉
𝑅 (˜ z; 𝜃) + 𝛽𝐷 (x, ˆ x; 𝜃, 𝜉 ), (21)
where 𝑅 (˜ z; 𝜃) = E

− log2 𝑝 ˜ z(˜ z)

represents the rate func-
tion and 𝐷 (x, ˆ x; 𝜃, 𝜉 ) = E

∥x − ˆ x∥2
denotes the distortion
function,where the constant 𝛽 manages the R-D trade-off.
Moreover, we formulate the traditional fixed R-D problem
as a multi-R-D problem for adaptability:
arg min
𝜃 , 𝜉
𝑅( ˆℎ; 𝜃) + 𝛽𝐷 (x, ˆ x; 𝜃, 𝜉 ) . (22)
It is noted that 𝛽 can affect reliable decoding and image
quality, emphasizing the need to adjust 𝛽 adaptively. In this
context, we introduce a DBC mechanism to dynamically
modify 𝛽 under dynamic channel conditions (As shown in
Fig. 6, given the channel state information (CSI) feedback,
we can obtain 𝛽 and compression ratio according to Sec.
5.1). Therefore, the revised problem can be formulated as:
arg min
𝜃 , 𝜉
𝑅( ˆℎ; 𝜃, 𝑟) + 𝐺 (𝑟)𝐷 (x, ˆ x; 𝜃, 𝜉, 𝑟 ) , (23)
where function 𝐺 is the R-D mapping function, which
utilizes a lookup table and converts the compression ratio
to the tradeoff parameter 𝛽. Therefore, there is no explicit
expression for the function 𝐺. Moreover, the adaptive com-
pression network is based on a pre-trained model [28],
using historical camera data as training dataset to obtain
network parameter 𝜃, 𝜉 by solving the multi-R-D problem in
(23). The detailed architecture and processes are described
in Appendix D. We also evaluate the R-D performance
of our proposed PACP framework using the Multi-scale
Structural Similarity (MS-SSIM) and Peak Signal-to-Noise
Ratio (PSNR) metrics in Appendix D.5.
As for computational cost, the encoder and de-
coder of MAE require 0.155 MFLOPs/pixel and 0.241
MFLOPs/pixel5, respectively [28]. Considering Tesla FSD
as the computational unit, when three CAVs share their
perception results at a rate of 10 fps, the average latencies for
encoding and decoding processes are observed to be 40.26
ms and 20.89 ms, respectively.
6 S IMULATION RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS
In this section, we evaluate our schemes under various
communication settings, which consist of bandwidth, trans-
mission power, the number of CAVs, and the distribution of
vehicles. Subsequently, we delve into the comparison of raw
data reconstruction performance—both with and without
the application of a fine-tuned compression strategy. In the
final part of this section, we present the results of BEV along
with the associated IoU.
5. As a metric of computational cost, MFLOPs/pixel denotes the
number of million floating point operations performed per pixel for
camera perception data.

---PAGE 11---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 11
Algorithm 2: Priority Aware Collaborative Percep-
tion
Input: Multi-CAV data 𝛤, number of vehicles 𝑁, channel
parameter constraints 𝐾, 𝐶𝑖 𝑗, device parameters
𝑟 𝑗, min, 𝑟 𝑗, max, 𝜂, 𝜏𝑡
𝑗 , 𝜏𝑐
𝑗 , 𝐸 𝑇
𝑗 , etc.
Output: Priority weight P, near-optimal compression ratio
R, link establishment S, data rate D, modulated
autoencoder, and BEV prediction.
1: Initialize priority weight P (0) by equally allocating
bandwidth and transmitting initial frames;
2: Initialize the link establishment decision S (0);
3: for 𝑗 = 0 to 𝑁 − 1 do
4: Sort column of link establishment decision matrix in
descending order and get the indices of the largest 𝐾
capacity, and set the associated 𝑠𝑖 𝑗 = 1;
5: end for
6: while Convergence not achieved do
7: Solve the linear programming problem P1−2;
8: Solve the submodular problem P2 using Algorithm 1;
9: Update priority weight P based on the current
bandwidth allocation and perception results;
10: if Priority weight P changes exceed the threshold 𝜖 P
then
11: Re-initialize the link establishment decision S (0),
then re-calculate initial priority weight P;
12: Continue the optimization iteration for problem P;
13: end if
14: end while
15: Obtain the near-optimal solution for R, S, D;
16: Determine the trade-off parameter 𝛽∗ based on the
channel state;
17: Train encoders and decoders to compress and
reconstruct raw camera data according to Eq. (23);
18: Predict BEV feature using the reconstructed camera
data.
6.1 Dataset and Baselines
Dataset: To validate our approach, we employ the CARLA
and OpenCOOD simulation platforms, exploiting the
OPV2V dataset [35]. This dataset encompasses 73 varied
scenes, a multitude of CAVs, 11,464 frames, and in excess of
232,000 annotated 3D vehicle bounding boxes. All of these
have been amassed using the CARLA simulator [34].
Baseline 1: the Fairness Transmission Scheme ( FTS),
which is built on the principles laid out in [33]. The cor-
nerstone of this approach is the allocation of subchannels in
a manner that resonates with Jain index defined in Eq. (1).
Baseline 2: The core of this baseline is the Distributed
Multicast Data Dissemination Algorithm ( DMDDA), as
outlined in [24], which seeks to optimize throughput in a
decentralized fashion.
Baseline 3: the No Fusion scheme, which implies the
usage of a single ego vehicle for gathering information about
its surroundings. It operates without integrating data from
the cameras of proximate CAVs.
To ensure a fair comparison, we maintain uniformity in
the transmission model and simulation parameters, aligning
them to those discussed in Sec. 3.2.
TABLE 3: Simulation Parameters
Parameter Value
Number of vehicles ( 𝑁) 10
Local data per vehicle ( 𝐴 𝑗) 40 Mbits
Number of subchannels ( 𝐾) 4
Computation complexity (𝛽) 100 Cycles/bit
Transmission power (𝑃𝑡) 8 mW
CPU capacity (𝐹𝑗) 1 GHz - 3 GHz
Bandwidth (𝑊) 200 MHz
Power threshold (𝐸𝑇
𝑗 ) 1 kW
Weight for perception quality (𝑤1) 1 × 10−2
Weight for perceptual region (𝑤2) 1 × 10−3
Parameter ( 𝜂) 1
Compression ratio range (𝑟min, 𝑟max) (0.3, 0.95)
(a) IoU vs. Noise level
+78.79%
+167.00%
+309.79%
+535.84%
+893.
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0 Mean Utility Value (x10 6 )
PACP
DMDDA
0              2              4              6 8
Noise Level (dB)
93%
 (b) Utility vs. Noise level
Fig. 7: AP@IoU and utility value under different noise levels.
6.2 Simulation Settings
Our simulations are based on the 3GPP standard [38].
Specifically, the communication range for vehicles is 150 m.
Vehicular speeds, unless otherwise stated, ranging from 0 to
50 km/h (typical speed range on city roads), are generated
using the CARLA simulator [34]. Additionally, vehicles are
uniformly distributed over a six-lane highway of 200 meters,
with three lanes allocated for each traveling direction. To
simplify, certain frame types, such as cyclic redundancy
checks and Reed-Solomon coding, have been omitted from
our simulation. Table 3 presents the main simulation param-
eters utilized in our research.
6.3 Analysis of Experimental Results
In our study, we evaluate the efficacy of the proposed
PACP algorithm in maximizing utility value and enhancing
perception accuracy (AP@IoU). We benchmark its perfor-
mance against two established methods: DMDDA [24] and
FTS [33]. For fairness, all evaluations are carried out under
consistent conditions. Firstly, we conducted experiments
to investigate the impact of electromagnetic interference
on collaborative perception. The interference levels were
classified based on their relative noise floor according to
urban environment: 0 dB over -174 dBm/Hz (Low), 4 dB
over -174 dBm/Hz (Medium), and 8 dB over -174 dBm/Hz
(High). As illustrated in Fig. 7, perception accuracy and
utility value deteriorate sharply as noise level intensifies.
While PACP outperforms both DMDDA and FTS in terms
of AP@IoU. Specifically, PACP shows an improvement of
14.04% over DMDDA and 36.58% over FTS, because PACP
utilizes the adaptive compression to reduce packet loss and
latency. In Fig. 7(a), due to the priority-aware scheme, PACP

---PAGE 12---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 12
+8.27%
+9.94% +10.75%
+4.52%
+5.86%
4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0
Transmission power (mW)
3.2
3.0
2.8
2.6
2.4
2.2
2.0
PACP
DMDDA
Utility value (×10 6)
(a) Usum vs. Power
+7.28%
+2.13%
+0.72%
+0.22%
80.0 120.0 160.0  200.0
Maximun range (m)
2.0
1.8
1.6
1.4
1.2
1.0
PACP
DMDDA
Utility value (×10 6)
 (b) Usum vs. 𝑅max
+11.07%
+15.47% +17.79%
+3.77%
3.0 5.0 7.0 9.0
Number of V ehicles
3.2
3.0
2.8
2.6
2.4
2.2
2.0
PACP
DMDDA
Utility value (×10 6)
 (c) Usum vs. CAV num.
+6.94% +7.40% +7.79% +8.
+5.61%
+6.35%
80.0  100.0  120.0  140.0 160.0  180.0
Bandwidth (MHz)
3.0
2.8
2.6
2.4
2.2
2.0
PACP
DMDDA
Utility value (×10 6)
07% (d) Usum vs. Bandwidth
Fig. 8: Results on average utility value Usum under different communication settings.
+18.94%
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Transmission power (mW)
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
PACP
DMDDA
FTS
Throughput (M bps)
(a) Throughput vs. Power
PACP
DMDDA
FTS
+25.55%
80      100 120 140 160 180 200
Maximun range (m)
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
Throughput (Mbps) (b) Throughput vs. 𝑅max
+20.39%
3 4         5         6   7         8         9        10
Number of CAV
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
PACP
DMDDA
FTS
Throughput (Mbps)
 (c) Throughput vs. CAV num.
+18.61%
80 100 120 140 160 180
Bandwidth (MHz)
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
PACP
DMDDA
FTS
Throughput (M bps)
 (d) Throughput vs. Bandwidth
Fig. 9: Results on average network throughput under different communication settings.
effectively discards poisonous data, thereby mitigating in-
terference adverse impact on perception. In Fig. 7(b), PACP
demonstrates superior performance compared to DMDDA
in terms of utility value by increasing over 78.79%.
In Eq. (13), the utility value Usum denotes the weighted
utility function of perception quality and perceptual region.
As the priority value is determined by the degree of IoU
matching, a larger utility value indicates that more data
matching the perception results of the ego CAV have been
transmitted. Intuitively, the higher the utility value, the
higher the accuracy of the perception results of the ego
CAV . Fig. 8 presents a comprehensive view of how different
communication parameters influence the utility value Usum.
In Fig. 8(a), as the transmission power increases, both PACP
and DMDDA show an improvement in the utility value.
However, the utility value of PACP consistently surpasses
that of DMDDA. Specifically, at a typical power 8.0 mW,
PACP is about 8.27% better than DMDDA, underlining the
efficiency of the proposed PACP approach over the baseline
in terms of better prioritized data communication. Fig. 8(b)
indicates that the utility value generally declines as the max-
imum range increases. Despite this trend, PACP consistently
outperforms DMDDA, illustrating its robustness even when
the communication range is extended. Fig. 8(c) reveals that
as the number of CAVs increases, the utility value increases.
After deploying 9 vehicles, the PACP algorithm outstrips
DMDDA by a notable margin of 17.79%. This accentuates
the scalability and efficacy of PACP in larger vehicular
networks. From Fig. 8(d), PACP amplifies the utility value
by 8.07% in comparison with DMDDA at a bandwidth of
180 MHz. This suggests that PACP is adept at capitalizing on
larger bandwidths to enhance the perception accuracy of the
ego CAV . In Fig. 11, as the energy consumption constraints
𝐸 𝑇 increase, both PACP and DMDDA show an improve-
ment in the utility value. However, the utility value of
PACP consistently surpasses that of DMDDA. Specifically,
at a typical constraint of 10 W, PACP achieves about 21.34%
higher utility value than DMDDA.
Intuitively, we can adopt throughput as a metric for
cooperative perception. Similar to utility value, a higher
throughput often entails a greater amount of valuable infor-
mation being transmitted. Fig. 9(a) shows that larger power
enhances throughput. Fig. 9(b) depicts an inverse correlation
between the vehicle distribution maximum range (80 m -
210 m) and throughput. It is noted that the performance
of FTS strategy deteriorates because of balancing commu-
nication channels of remote vehicles. Remarkably, with five
cooperative CAVs, the PACP algorithm augments the aver-
age throughput by 20.39% compared with DMDDA. Fur-
thermore, Fig. 9(d) underscores the linear affinity between
the network’s bandwidth (80-180 MHz) and throughput.
Specifically, a bandwidth of 𝑊 = 180 MHz elevates the
average throughput by 18.61% using the PACP algorithm
against other baselines. To sum up, it is evident that a higher
throughput results in a richer amount of high-priority data
being transmitted according to Figs. 8-9.
To further analyze the performance of perception accu-
racy, we conduct extensive experiments to verify the perfor-
mance of PACP . From Table 4, it is evident that the proposed
PACP method consistently outperforms other techniques
under various settings. PACP , underpinned by a priority-
aware perception scheme, demonstrates a remarkable in-
crease in perception accuracy, surpassing FTS by a minimum
of 35.38% and DMDDA by 5.71% in scenarios under varying
numbers of CAVs. Given a typical bandwidth 200 MHz, the
improvement of adapting PACP achieves up to 13.60%. Such
performance elevation is attributed to PACP’s adeptness at
channel allocation based on CAVs’ significance to the ego

---PAGE 13---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 13
TABLE 4: The comparison of PACP with three baselines under different parameters in terms of perception accuracy.
AP@IoU
Parameters Power (mW) Num. of CA Vs Bandwidth (MHz)
5 8 11 2 3 4 80 140 200
No Fusion 0.408 0.408 0.408 0.408 0.408 0.408 0.408 0.408 0.408
FTS 0.410 0.499 0.499 0.506 0.447 0.410 0.410 0.410 0.499
DMDDA 0.590 0.605 0.646 0.648 0.605 0.603 0.597 0.597 0.603
PACP 0.662 0.673 0.684 0.685 0.685 0.685 0.672 0.680 0.685
Improvement 12.20% 11.24% 5.88% 5.71% 13.22% 13.60% 12.56% 13.90% 13.60%
(c) DMDDA (d) FTS(b) PACP(a) Ground truth
 (e) No Fusion
Missing 
detection
False 
detection
False 
detection
Missing 
detection
False 
detection
False 
detection
Fig. 10: BEV prediction: (a) Ground Truth, (b) PACP , (c) DMDDA, (d) No Fusion. PACP accurately detects dynamic objects,
unlike DMDDA, FTS, and No Fusion. White: correct detection; Red: missing detection; Purple: false detection.
6 8 10 12 14 16 18
Energy consumption constraints ET (W)
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0Utility value (106)
+23.77%
+21.80%
+21.34%
+20.92% +20.56% +20.23% +20.19%
PACP
DMDDA
Fig. 11: The Utility value vs Energy consumption constraints
𝐸 𝑇 (W).
vehicle, ensuring optimal transmission of pivotal perception
data. Contrarily, fairness-based strategies, as exemplified
by FTS’s bandwidth-fairness and DMDDA’s subchannel-
fairness, inadvertently lead to suboptimal resource alloca-
tion by treating every CAV with uniform significance. This
often results in the situation that vital information receives
the same resource allocation as non-essential data, conse-
quently diminishing AP@IoU and increasing the chances of
missed detections in a BEV context. Not unexpectedly, as
the power, the number of CAVs, and bandwidth increase,
the amount of information perceived by the ego CAV ex-
pands, leading to a consequent rise in the AP@IoU for all
perception strategies.
Fig. 10 illustrates the BEV predictions across different
schemes, setting an emphasis on the deviations from the
Ground truth (GT), depicted in Fig. 10(a), which symbolizes
the paragon of collaborative perception communication.
Observing Fig. 10(b), the PACP stands out by registering
zero false or missing detections, adhering closely to GT. On
the other hand, DMDDA and FTS schemes, represented in
Figs. 10(c) and (d), manifest a notable number of missing
detections, highlighting the inefficacies in their perception
algorithms. The most striking deviations are observed in the
No Fusion scheme, as portrayed in Fig. 10(e). This scheme,
relying solely on single vehicle perception, results in an
escalated number of both false and missing detections. Such
stark disparities accentuate the imperativeness of leveraging
multi-view data fusion for optimized perception outcomes
and further illuminate the pronounced efficacy of the PACP
scheme over its contemporaries.
7 C ONCLUSIONS
In this paper, we have investigated the perception chal-
lenges posed by the inherent limitations of the BEV , partic-
ularly its blind spots, in ensuring the safety and reliability
of connected and autonomous vehicles. We have introduced
the novel PACP framework that leverages a unique BEV-
match mechanism, discerning priority levels by comput-
ing the correlation between the captured information from
nearby CAVs and the ego vehicle. By employing a two-stage
optimization based on submodular optimization, PACP op-
timally regulates transmission rates, link connectivity, and
compression metrics. A distinguishing feature of PACP is
its integration with a deep learning-based adaptive autoen-
coder, which is further enhanced by fine-tuning mecha-
nisms, ensuring efficient image reconstruction quality under
dynamic channel conditions. Evaluations conducted on the
CARLA platform with the OPV2V dataset have confirmed
the superiority of PACP to existing methodologies. The
results have demonstrated that PACP improves the utility
value and AP@IoU by 8.27% and 13.60%, respectively, high-
lighting its potential to set new benchmarks in the realm
of collaborative perception for connected and autonomous
vehicles.

---PAGE 14---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 14
APPENDIX A
THE BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON IOU
Intersection over Union (IoU) is an effective metric in com-
puter vision, especially in object detection, used to quantify
the overlap between two areas. Though IoU fundamentally
informs the design of our priority weight system in subse-
quent sections, it is directly applied as a validation tool in
our experimental setup to assess the accuracy of perception
overlaps among Connected Autonomous Vehicles (CAVs).
Ground Truth 𝐺𝐺
Predicted Box 𝑃𝑃
Intersection
𝐺𝐺∩ 𝑃𝑃
Union
𝐺𝐺∪ 𝑃𝑃
Ground Truth 𝐺𝐺
Predicted Box 𝑃𝑃
(a) The intersection of 𝐺 and 𝑃.
Ground Truth 𝐺𝐺
Predicted Box 𝑃𝑃
Intersection
𝐺𝐺∩ 𝑃𝑃
Union
𝐺𝐺∪ 𝑃𝑃
Ground Truth 𝐺𝐺
Predicted Box 𝑃𝑃
 (b) The union of 𝐺 and 𝑃.
Fig. 12: Illustration of Intersection over Union (IoU) using
a ground truth bounding box 𝐺 and a predicted bounding
box 𝑃.
As shown in Fig. 12, IoU is calculated between a ground
truth bounding box 𝐺 and a predicted bounding box 𝑃,
which represent the actual and camera-based perceived
locations, respectively. The coordinates for 𝐺 ((𝑥𝐺
0 , 𝑦𝐺
0 ) and
(𝑥𝐺
1 , 𝑦𝐺
1 )) and 𝑃 ((𝑥 𝑃
0 , 𝑦 𝑃
0 ) and (𝑥 𝑃
1 , 𝑦 𝑃
1 )) denote their respec-
tive top-left and bottom-right corners.
The respective areas of 𝐺 and 𝑃 are defined as follows:
𝑆𝐺 = |( 𝑥𝐺
0 − 𝑥𝐺
1 ) × ( 𝑦𝐺
0 − 𝑦𝐺
1 )| ,
𝑆𝑃 = |( 𝑥 𝑃
0 − 𝑥 𝑃
1 ) × ( 𝑦𝑃
0 − 𝑦𝑃
1 )| . (24)
The area of overlap, critical for the IoU calculation, is
derived from the extremities of the overlapping coordinates:
𝑆𝐺∩𝑃 =
(𝑥 𝐼
0 − 𝑥 𝐼
1) × ( 𝑦𝐼
0 − 𝑦𝐼
1)
 (25)
The union area, combining both bounding boxes minus
their intersection, is given by:
𝑆𝐺∪𝑃 = 𝑆𝐺 + 𝑆𝑃 − 𝑆𝐺∩𝑃 (26)
IoU is thus calculated as:
IoU(𝐺, 𝑃) = 𝑆𝐺∩𝑃
𝑆𝐺∪𝑃
=
(𝑥 𝐼
0 − 𝑥 𝐼
1) × ( 𝑦𝐼
0 − 𝑦𝐼
1)

𝑆𝐺 + 𝑆𝑃 − 𝑆𝐺∩𝑃
. (27)
The performance of IoU is heavily influenced by the
quality of the communication channel. Superior channel
quality enhances the transmission of camera data, leading
to more precise and synchronized data fusion among CAVs.
This synchronization reduces latency in data exchanges,
directly improving the alignment of perceived and actual
locations, thus boosting IoU performance. Conversely, poor
channel conditions can decrease overlap accuracy between
predicted and ground truth boxes, thereby reducing IoU
scores. This emphasizes the critical role of robust channel
quality in achieving optimal perception system performance
in CAV networks.
APPENDIX B
PROOF OF PROPOSITION 1
Proof: Define the Weighted Maximum Coverage Problem
(WMCP) with universe 𝑈, subset family F =
 ˆ𝑆1, . . . , ˆ𝑆𝐹
	
,
and weight function 𝑤 : 𝑈 → R≥0. For set ˆ𝑆 ⊆ 𝑈 and subset
family Y ⊆ F :
𝑤 ( ˆ𝑆) =
∑︁
𝑢∈ ˆ𝑆
𝑤 (𝑢),
where 𝑤 (Y) = 𝑤
Ð
ˆ𝑆 ∈ Y ˆ𝑆

. WMCP aims to select subsets
from F to maximize the weight of their elements:
max
ˆ𝑆
∑︁
𝑢∈ ˆ𝑆
𝑤 (𝑢) s.t.
 ˆ𝑆
 < 𝐾, ˆ𝑆 𝑓 ⊆ 𝑈. (28)
According to the definition of the utility function in Eq. (13),
we define the weight function with fixed D (𝑛) as follows:
U𝑖 (S𝑖, D (𝑛) ) = 𝜔1
𝑁∑︁
𝑗=1, 𝑗≠𝑖
P 𝑗𝑖 𝑠 𝑗𝑖 𝑑 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗 + 𝜔2I (S𝑖) . (29)
It is noted that each element in 𝑈 is a unique link for a
CAV in P. The weight 𝑤 in WMCP aligns with the utility
U𝑖 (S𝑖, D (𝑛) ) in P. Hence, with fixed D (𝑛), the problem can
be seen as WMCP . Considering the optimization overD and
R, P extends beyond WMCP , introducing complexities from
D and R. Given the inherent NP-hardness of WMCP and
the added complexity when including optimization over D
and R, we can infer that problem P is, at the very least, as
hard as the classical WMCP . Hence, problem P is NP-hard.
■
APPENDIX C
PROOF OF PROPOSITION 2
Proof: Refer to four properties from Definition 3 in Sec. 5.2,
we will prove that the objective function of the problem P
satisfies all essential conditions for submodular functions as
follows:
(1) To show the first property of Definition 3, we can
obtain 𝑓 (∅) = Usum (S, D) = 0 if S = 0, which represents
that we do not establish any links so S is a zero matrix.
Therefore, the first property of Definition 3 can be satisfied.
(2) To show the second property of Definition 3, we
assume B1 and B2 are link establishment sets, where ∀B1 ⊆
B2 ⊆ E. Let
n
𝑠B1
𝑖 𝑗
o
𝑁 × 𝑁
and
n
𝑠B2
𝑖 𝑗
o
𝑁 × 𝑁
denote the associated
link establishment matrices. Thus, we have:
𝑓 (B1) = Usum (B1, D) =
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1
©­
«
𝜔1
𝑁∑︁
𝑗=1, 𝑗≠𝑖
P 𝑗𝑖 𝑠B1
𝑗𝑖 𝑑 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗 + 𝜔2I (B1)ª®
¬
.
(30)
Similarity,
𝑓 (B2) =
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1
©­
«
𝜔1
𝑁∑︁
𝑗=1, 𝑗≠𝑖
P 𝑗𝑖 𝑠B2
𝑗𝑖 𝑑 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗 + 𝜔2I (B2)ª®
¬
. (31)
Then, let B2\B1 represent the set of all elements that
are in B2 but not in B1. Therefore, we can derive
the difference between B1 and B2 as 𝑓 (B2\B1) =Í𝑁
𝑖=1

𝜔1
Í𝑁
𝑗=1, 𝑗≠𝑖 P 𝑗𝑖 𝑠B2\B1
𝑗𝑖 𝑑 (𝑛)
𝑖 𝑗 + 𝜔2I (B2\B1)

. Each element
of the matrices 𝑠B
𝑖 𝑗 can only take values of 0 or 1, where 1

---PAGE 15---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 15
signifies a connected link and 0 denotes a broken or non-
existent link. Given ∀B1 ⊆ B2 ⊆ E, it is evident that every
link connected in B1 is also connected in B2. However, the
converse may not be true; there might be links in B2 that
are not connected in B1. When 𝑠B2
𝑖 𝑗 = 𝑠B1
𝑖 𝑗 , the difference is
zero. When 𝑠B1
𝑖 𝑗 ≠ 𝑠B2
𝑖 𝑗 , the difference is positive. Therefore,
the difference 𝑓 (B2\B1) ≥ 0, and the objective function
Usum (S, D) is monotone.
(3) To show the third property of Definition 3, we have to
prove 𝑓 (B1) + 𝑓 (B2) ≥ 𝑓 (B1 ∪ B2) + 𝑓 (B1 ∩ B2). According to
Eqs. (12) and (30), we can decompose 𝑓 (S𝑖) into two distinct
components as follows:
𝑓 (S𝑖) = 𝑔 (S𝑖) + ℎ(S𝑖), (32)
where 𝑔 (S𝑖) = 𝜔1Ur is a modular function and ℎ(S𝑖) = 𝜔2Up
is a submodular function. As for 𝑔 (S𝑖), the modular prop-
erty ensures that the sum of the values for any two sub-
sets is equal to the sum of their union and intersection:
𝑔 (B1) + 𝑔 (B2) = 𝑔 (B1 ∪ B2) + 𝑔 (B1 ∩ B2). As for ℎ(S𝑖),
encapsulates the union of perceptual regions. The inherent
property of the union operation ensures diminishing re-
turns; adding more regions results in a lesser incremental
gain, thereby making ℎ submodular. Therefore, for any
B1, B2 ⊆ S : ℎ(B1) + ℎ(B2) ≥ ℎ(B1 ∪ B2) + ℎ(B1 ∩ B2). Com-
bining the modular and submodular components, we have
𝑓 (B1) + 𝑓 (B2) ≥ 𝑓 (B1 ∪ B2) + 𝑓 (B1 ∩ B2).
(4) To show the fourth property of Definition 3, we
need to prove Δ 𝑓 (𝑒|B1) ⩾ Δ 𝑓 (𝑒|B2), where 𝑒 is an arbitrary
element in the set E\B2. The original inequality can be
formulated as:
𝑓 (B2 ∪ {𝑒}) − 𝑓 (B1 ∪ {𝑒}) ⩽ 𝑓 (B2) − 𝑓 (B1). (33)
Combining Eqs. (30), (31), (32) and (33), we extend the left
side of the equality, which can be given by:
Usum (B1 ∩ {𝑒}, D) − U sum (B2 ∩ {𝑒}, D)
= 𝑔 (B2\B1) + [ℎ (B2 ∩ {𝑒}) − ℎ (B1 ∩ {𝑒})] , (34)
Given that 𝑔 (B) is modular and ℎ(B) is submodular, it
follows that 𝑔 (B2\B1) = 𝑔 (B2) − 𝑔 (B1) and ℎ (B2 ∩ {𝑒}) −
ℎ (B1 ∩ {𝑒}) ⩽ ℎ (B2) − ℎ (B1) for all possible link estab-
lishment 𝑒. Therefore, we can obtain Usum (B1 ∩ { 𝑒}, D) −
Usum (B2 ∩ { 𝑒}, D) ⩽ 𝑔 (B2) − 𝑔 (B1) + ℎ (B2) − ℎ (B1) =
Usum (B2, D) − U sum (B1, D). ■
APPENDIX D
NETWORK STRUCTURE DETAILS
D.1 Encoder Phase
The input image x undergoes transformation to latent rep-
resentation z. A quantization function 𝑄 further refines z
into a discrete vector 𝑞 ∈ H𝐷, leading to 𝑞 = 𝑄(z). In
V2V scenarios, 𝑞 is serialized into bitstream 𝑏, with entropy
coding to maximize the bandwidth efficiency. As shown in
Fig. 13(a), the encoder compresses the input camera data,
reducing its size for transmission while retaining essential
information. It comprises the following layers:
• Convolutional Layers (Conv): There are three convo-
lutional layers with kernel sizes of 9×9, 5×5, and 5×5,
and strides of 4, 2, and 2, respectively. These layers
progressively reduce the spatial dimensions of the
input data from [𝐻, 𝑊, 3] to [𝐻/16, 𝑊/16, 𝐹3], where
𝐻 is the height, 𝑊 is the width, and 𝐹1, 𝐹2, and 𝐹3
are the number of filters at each layer.
• Generalized Divisive Normalization (GDN) Layers:
GDN layers follow each convolutional layer to nor-
malize the feature maps, promoting sparsity and
reducing redundancy, which is critical for efficient
compression. The output dimensions remain the
same as those of the preceding convolutional layers.
• Element-wise Modulation: The outputs of the
GDN layers are modulated by element-wise mul-
tiplication with modulation vectors m(ℎ𝑖 𝑗) =
(𝑚1 (ℎ𝑖 𝑗), 𝑚2 (ℎ𝑖 𝑗), 𝑚3 (ℎ𝑖 𝑗)) generated by the modula-
tion network. This modulation adapts the compres-
sion process to the CSI feedback, ℎ𝑖 𝑗.
• Quantization: The modulated data is then quantized,
reducing the precision of the latent representation
and enabling efficient encoding into a bitstream.
D.2 Decoding Phase
The bitstream 𝑏 undergoes inverse transformations. This
includes dequantization (ˆz = 𝑄 −1 (𝑞)) and a reconstruction
function (ˆx = 𝐻 (ˆz)) to retrieve the original image. As shown
in Fig. 13(b), the decoder reconstructs the original camera
data from the compressed bitstream, ensuring that the es-
sential information is preserved and accurately recovered. It
consists of:
• Inverse Generalized Divisive Normalization (IGDN)
Layers: IGDN layers, which reverse the normaliza-
tion effect of the GDN layers, are applied to the quan-
tized latent representation. The output dimensions
are [𝐻/16, 𝑊/16, 𝐹3].
• Element-wise Demodulation: The outputs of the
IGDN layers are demodulated by element-wise
multiplication with demodulation vectors d(ℎ𝑖 𝑗) =
(𝑑1 (ℎ𝑖 𝑗), 𝑑2 (ℎ𝑖 𝑗), 𝑑3 (ℎ𝑖 𝑗)) generated by the demodula-
tion network, adapting the reconstruction to the CSI
feedback.
• Deconvolutional Layers (Deconv): These layers up-
sample the feature maps to reconstruct the data, with
kernel sizes of 5 × 5, 5 × 5, and 9 × 9, and strides of
2, 2, and 4, respectively, restoring the dimensions to
[𝐻, 𝑊, 3].
D.3 Modulation/Demodulation Networks
As shown in Fig. 14, the modulation and demodulation net-
works translate the CSI feedback into adaptive modulation
and demodulation vectors, respectively, for the encoder and
decoder. They include:
• R-D Mapping: Converts the CSI feedback ℎ𝑖 𝑗 into
rate-distortion lambda parameters.
• Fully Connected (FC) Layers: Multiple FC layers
with ReLU activations introduce non-linearity and
enhance the representation capacity of the network.
• Exponential Layer (E-Layer): Ensures that the output
vectors are positive, necessary for the subsequent
modulation and demodulation processes.

---PAGE 16---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 16
IGDN
Conv 1
IGDN
Conv 2
IGDN
Conv 3
CSI feedback
Demodulation networks
. . .
Reconstructed data
Decoder
Bitstream
Conv 1
GDN
Conv 2
GDN
Conv 3
GDN
CSI feedback
Modulation networks
. . .
Quantization
Camera data
Encoder
Bitstream
R-D mapping
FC Layer
ReLU
FC Layer
E- Layer
Modulation networks
Channel gain
R-D mapping
FC Layer
ReLU
FC Layer
E- Layer
Demodulation networks
(a) The encoder part.
IGDN
Conv 1
IGDN
Conv 2
IGDN
Conv 3
CSI feedback
Demodulation networks
. . .
Reconstructed data
Decoder
Bitstream
Conv 1
GDN
Conv 2
GDN
Conv 3
GDN
CSI feedback
Modulation networks
. . .
Quantization
Camera data
Encoder
Bitstream
R-D mapping
FC Layer
ReLU
FC Layer
E- Layer
Modulation networks
Channel gain
R-D mapping
FC Layer
ReLU
FC Layer
E- Layer
Demodulation networks (b) The decoder part.
Fig. 13: The architecture of the deep learning-based adaptive compression.
IGDN
Conv 1
IGDN
Conv 2
IGDN
Conv 3
CSI feedback
Demodulation networks
. . .
Reconstructed data
Decoder
Bitstream
Conv 1
GDN
Conv 2
GDN
Conv 3
GDN
CSI feedback
Modulation networks
. . .
Quantization
Camera data
Encoder
Bitstream
R-D mapping
FC Layer
ReLU
FC Layer
E- Layer
Modulation networks
Channel gain
R-D mapping
FC Layer
ReLU
FC Layer
E- Layer
Demodulation networks
Fig. 14: The architecture of modulation/ demodulation net-
works.
D.4 Fine-tuning Phase
This adaptive approach enables the ego CAV and nearby
CAVs to adaptively adjust the data compression ratio ac-
cording to dynamic channel conditions. As shown in Fig. 6,
we introduce a fine-tuning compression strategy to further
reduce temporal redundancy between frames. Utilizing a
Modulated Autoencoder (MAE), our method first transmits
a few uncompressed images to RSU for real-time fine-
tuning.
Even though digitization and quantization modules are
present in the encoder and decoder, we employ scalar
quantization by rounding to the nearest neighbor during
inference. During training, this is replaced by additive uni-
form noise as a proxy, i.e., ˜ z= z + Δz with Δz ∼ U (− 1
2 , 1
2 ).
This approach allows the network to approximate gradients
during the backward pass, enabling effective backpropaga-
tion through these non-differentiable layers. This technique
ensures that the network can be trained end-to-end, despite
the presence of quantization layers.
D.5 The Evaluation of Rate-Distoration (R-D) Perfor-
mance
We evaluate the R-D performance of our proposed PACP
framework using the Multi-scale Structural Similarity (MS-
SSIM) and Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR) metrics. MS-
SSIM is a perceptual metric that measures the similarity
0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8
BPP(bit per pixel)
11
12
13
14
15
16
17MS-SSIM(dB)
Unfinetuned PACP 
Finetuned     PACP
 JPEG
(a) MS-SSIM vs. bit per pixel levels
0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8
BPP(bit per pixel)
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41PSNR(dB)
Unfinetuned PACP 
Finetuned
JPEG
PACP (b) PSNR vs. bit per pixel levels
Fig. 15: Comparison of rate–distortion (R-D) performance
between finetuned PACP , unfinetuned PACP and JPEG at
the different bit per pixel levels.
between the original and compressed images, accounting
for variations in resolution and viewing conditions. Be-
sides, PSNR quantifies the reconstruction quality of images
by comparing the original and compressed versions, with
higher values indicating better quality. As shown in Fig.
15(a), at lower BPP levels (below 0.4), our PACP method,
both unfine-tuned and fine-tuned, achieves at least 1-2 dB
higher MS-SSIM compared with JPEG. At higher BPP levels,
the fine-tuned PACP maintains at least a 1 dB advantage.
Fig. 15(b) demonstrates that the fine-tuned PACP consis-
tently improves PSNR over JPEG by 2-5 dB across all BPP
levels. These results validate the superior R-D performance
of our deep learning-based adaptive compression method
compared with the standard JPEG compression.
REFERENCES
[1] S. Hu, Z. Fang, Y. Deng, X. Chen, and Y. Fang, “Collaborative per-
ception for connected and autonomous driving: Challenges, pos-
sible solutions and opportunities,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.01544,
2024.
[2] S. Hu, Z. Fang, H. An, G. Xu, Y. Zhou, X. Chen, and
Y. Fang, “Adaptive communications in collaborative perception
with domain alignment for autonomous driving,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.00013, 2023.
[3] S. Hu, Z. Fang, X. Chen, Y. Fang, and S. Kwong, “Towards full-
scene domain generalization in multi-agent collaborative bird’s
eye view segmentation for connected and autonomous driving,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.16754, 2023.

---PAGE 17---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 17
[4] X. Chen, Y. Deng, H. Ding, G. Qu, H. Zhang, P . Li, and Y. Fang,
“Vehicle as a service (VaaS): Leverage vehicles to build ser-
vice networks and capabilities for smart cities,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2304.11397, 2023.
[5] Z. Lin, G. Zhu, Y. Deng, X. Chen, Y. Gao, K. Huang, and Y. Fang,
“Efficient parallel split learning over resource-constrained wireless
edge networks,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing , pp. 1–16,
Jan. 2024.
[6] Y. Xiao, F. Codevilla, A. Gurram, O. Urfalioglu, and A. M. López,
“Multimodal end-to-end autonomous driving,” IEEE Transactions
on Intelligent Transportation Systems , vol. 23, no. 1, pp. 537–547,
Aug. 2022.
[7] R. Xu, Z. Tu, H. Xiang, W. Shao, B. Zhou, and J. Ma, “CoBEVT:
Cooperative bird’s eye view semantic segmentation with sparse
transformers,” in Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL) , Auckland,
NZ, Dec. 2022.
[8] Y. Zhang, H. An, Z. Fang, G. Xu, Y. Zhou, X. Chen, and Y. Fang,
“SmartCooper: Vehicular collaborative perception with adaptive
fusion and judger mechanism,” in IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA), Yokohama, Japan, May 2024.
[9] Y. Yuan, H. Cheng, and M. Sester, “Keypoints-based deep feature
fusion for cooperative vehicle detection of autonomous driving,”
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters , vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 3054–3061,
Jan. 2022.
[10] M. Noor-A-Rahim, Z. Liu, H. Lee, M. O. Khyam, J. He, D. Pesch,
K. Moessner, W. Saad, and H. V . Poor, “6G for vehicle-to-
everything (V2X) communications: Enabling technologies, chal-
lenges, and opportunities,” Proceedings of the IEEE , vol. 110, no. 6,
pp. 712–734, May 2022.
[11] Y.-C. Liu, J. Tian, N. Glaser, and Z. Kira, “When2com: Multi-agent
perception via communication graph grouping,” in IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) ,
Seattle, WA (Virtual), 2020, pp. 4106–4115.
[12] Z. Wang, Z. Zhang, J. Wang, C. Jiang, W. Wei, and Y. Ren,
“AUV-assisted node repair for IoUT relying on multi-agent
reinforcement learning,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, (DOI:
10.1109/JIOT.2023.3298522), 2023.
[13] Z. Fang, J. Wang, J. Du, X. Hou, Y. Ren, and Z. Han, “Stochas-
tic optimization-aided energy-efficient information collection in
internet of underwater things networks,” IEEE Internet of Things
Journal, vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 1775–1789, Jun. 2022.
[14] Z. Wang, J. Du, C. Jiang, Y. Ren, and X.-P . Zhang, “UAV-
assisted target tracking and computation offloading in USV-based
MEC networks,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, (DOI:
10.1109/TMC.2024.3396121), pp. 1–16, 2024.
[15] A. Geiger, P . Lenz, and R. Urtasun, “Are we ready for autonomous
driving? The KITTI vision benchmark suite,” in IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Providence, RI,
Jul. 2012, pp. 3354–3361.
[16] Q. Chen, X. Ma, S. Tang, J. Guo, Q. Yang, and S. Fu, “F-cooper:
Feature based cooperative perception for autonomous vehicle
edge computing system using 3D point clouds,” in Proceedings
of the 4th ACM/IEEE Symposium on Edge Computing , Arlington,
Virginia, Nov. 2019, pp. 88–100.
[17] T.-H. Wang, S. Manivasagam, M. Liang, B. Yang, W. Zeng, and
R. Urtasun, “V2VNet: Vehicle-to-vehicle communication for joint
perception and prediction,” in European Conference on Computer
Vision (ECCV), Glasgow, United Kingdom, Aug. 2020, pp. 605–621.
[18] J. Li, R. Xu, X. Liu, J. Ma, Z. Chi, J. Ma, and H. Yu, “Learning for
vehicle-to-vehicle cooperative perception under lossy communi-
cation,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles , vol. 8, no. 4, pp.
2650–2660, Mar. 2023.
[19] S. Wang, Y. Hong, R. Wang, Q. Hao, Y.-C. Wu, and D. W. K. Ng,
“Edge federated learning via unit-modulus over-the-air compu-
tation,” IEEE Transactions on Communications , vol. 70, no. 5, pp.
3141–3156, Feb. 2022.
[20] A. Skodras, C. Christopoulos, and T. Ebrahimi, “The JPEG 2000
still image compression standard,” IEEE Signal Processing Maga-
zine, vol. 18, no. 5, pp. 36–58, Sep. 2001.
[21] H. Liu, H. Yuan, Q. Liu, J. Hou, and J. Liu, “A comprehensive
study and comparison of core technologies for MPEG 3-D point
cloud compression,” IEEE Transactions on Broadcasting , vol. 66,
no. 3, pp. 701–717, Dec. 2020.
[22] Q. Chen, S. Tang, Q. Yang, and S. Fu, “Cooper: Cooperative
perception for connected autonomous vehicles based on 3d point
clouds,” in IEEE 39th International Conference on Distributed Com-
puting Systems (ICDCS), Dallas, TX, Oct. 2019, pp. 514–524.
[23] Z. Y. Rawashdeh and Z. Wang, “Collaborative automated driving:
A machine learning-based method to enhance the accuracy of
shared information,” in 21st International Conference on Intelligent
Transportation Systems (ITSC), Maui, Hawaii, Dec. 2018, pp. 3961–
3966.
[24] X. Lyu, C. Zhang, C. Ren, and Y. Hou, “Distributed graph-based
optimization of multicast data dissemination for internet of vehi-
cles,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol. 24,
no. 3, pp. 3117–3128, Dec. 2022.
[25] B. L. Nguyen, D. T. Ngo, N. H. Tran, M. N. Dao, and H. L.
Vu, “Dynamic V2I/V2V cooperative scheme for connectivity and
throughput enhancement,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Trans-
portation Systems, vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 1236–1246, Sep. 2022.
[26] Y. Ma, W. Liang, J. Wu, and Z. Xu, “Throughput maximization of
NFV-enabled multicasting in mobile edge cloud networks,” IEEE
Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems , vol. 31, no. 2, pp.
393–407, 2020.
[27] S. Zhang, J. Chen, F. Lyu, N. Cheng, W. Shi, and X. Shen, “Vehicu-
lar communication networks in the automated driving era,” IEEE
Communications Magazine, vol. 56, no. 9, pp. 26–32, Sep. 2018.
[28] F. Yang, L. Herranz, J. Van De Weijer, J. A. I. Guitián, A. M. López,
and M. G. Mozerov, “Variable rate deep image compression with
modulated autoencoder,” IEEE Signal Processing Letters , vol. 27,
pp. 331–335, Jul. 2020.
[29] H. Liao, Z. Li, H. Shen, W. Zeng, D. Liao, G. Li, and C. Xu, “BAT:
Behavior-aware human-like trajectory prediction for autonomous
driving,” in Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelli-
gence (AAAI), Vancouver, Canada, Feb. 2024, pp. 10 332–10 340.
[30] Z. Wen, R. Yang, B. Qian, Y. Xuan, L. Lu, Z. Wang, H. Peng,
J. Xu, A. Y. Zomaya, and R. Ranjan, “JANUS: Latency-aware traffic
scheduling for IoT data streaming in edge environments,” IEEE
Transactions on Services Computing , vol. 16, no. 6, pp. 4302–4316,
Sep. 2023.
[31] H. Cao, J. Xu, Z. Yang, L. Shangguan, J. Zhang, X. He, and Y. Liu,
“Scaling up edge-assisted real-time collaborative visual SLAM
applications,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, vol. 32, no. 2,
pp. 1823–1838, Nov. 2024.
[32] H. An, Z. Fang, Y. Zhang, S. Hu, X. Chen, G. Xu, and
Y. Fang, “Cooperative vehicular perception with throughput max-
imization and adaptive compression,” in in the submission to
IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems
(ICDCS), 2024, password: FJUfPp! [Online]. Available: https://
zhengrufang.com/paper/ICDCS.pdf.
[33] E. R. Magsino and I. W.-H. Ho, “An enhanced information sharing
roadside unit allocation scheme for vehicular networks,” IEEE
Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol. 23, no. 9, pp.
15 462–15 475, Jan. 2022.
[34] A. Dosovitskiy, G. Ros, F. Codevilla, A. Lopez, and V . Koltun,
“CARLA: An open urban driving simulator,” inConference on robot
learning (CoRL), Mountain View, California, Nov. 2017, pp. 1–16.
[35] R. Xu, H. Xiang, X. Xia, X. Han, J. Li, and J. Ma, “OPV2V: An
open benchmark dataset and fusion pipeline for perception with
vehicle-to-vehicle communication,” in International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA) , Philadelphia, PA, May 2022, pp.
2583–2589.
[36] M. Adil, H. Song, J. Ali, M. A. Jan, M. Attique, S. Abbas, and
A. Farouk, “Enhanced-AODV: A robust three phase priority-based
traffic load balancing scheme for internet of things,” IEEE Internet
of Things Journal, vol. 9, no. 16, pp. 14 426–14 437, Apr. 2022.
[37] X. Luo and P . Li, “Learning-based off-chain transaction scheduling
in prioritized payment channel networks,” IEEE Journal on Selected
Areas in Communications, vol. 40, no. 12, pp. 3589–3599, Oct. 2022.
[38] W. Anwar, N. Franchi, and G. Fettweis, “Physical layer evaluation
of V2X communications technologies: 5G NR-V2X, LTE-V2X, IEEE
802.11bd, and IEEE 802.11p,” in IEEE 90th Vehicular Technology
Conference (VTC2019-Fall), Honolulu, HI, Sep. 2019, pp. 1–7.
[39] M. Adil, H. Song, J. Ali, M. A. Jan, M. Attique, S. Abbas, and
A. Farouk, “Enhanced-AODV: A robust three phase priority-based
traffic load balancing scheme for internet of things,” IEEE Internet
of Things Journal, vol. 9, no. 16, pp. 14 426–14 437, Apr. 2021.
[40] Z. Xiao, Z. Han, A. Nallanathan, O. A. Dobre, B. Clerckx, J. Choi,
C. He, and W. Tong, “Antenna array enabled space/air/ground
communications and networking for 6G,” IEEE Journal on Selected
Areas in Communications, vol. 40, no. 10, pp. 2773–2804, Aug. 2022.
[41] W. Chen, X. Lin, J. Lee, A. Toskala, S. Sun, C. F. Chiasserini, and
L. Liu, “5G-Advanced toward 6G: Past, present, and future,” IEEE

---PAGE 18---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING 18
Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 41, no. 6, pp. 1592–
1619, Jun. 2023.
[42] S. Dobzinski and J. Vondrák, “Communication complexity of
combinatorial auctions with submodular valuations,” in Twenty-
Fourth Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms, 2013,
pp. 1205–1215.
[43] A. Krause and D. Golovin, “Submodular function maximization.”
Tractability, vol. 3, no. 71-104, p. 3, 2014.
[44] J. Ballé, V . Laparra, and E. P . Simoncelli, “End-to-end optimized
image compression,” in International Conference on Learning Repre-
sentations (ICLR), Toulon, France, Apr. 2017, pp. 1–27.
Zhengru Fang (S’20) received his B.S. degree in electronics and in-
formation engineering from Huazhong University of Science and Tech-
nology, Wuhan, China, in 2019, and his M.S. degree from Tsinghua
University, Beijing, China, in 2022. He is currently pursuing a Ph.D. in
the Department of Computer Science at City University of Hong Kong.
His research interests include collaborative perception, V2X, age of
information, and mobile edge computing. He serves as a reviewer for
ACM Computing Surveys, IEEE TMC, IEEE JSAC, IEEE TIV, IEEE IoTJ,
IEEE TVT, and IEEE VTM.
Senkang Hu received his B.S. degree in electronic and information
engineering from Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, China, in 2022.
He is currently pursuing his PhD degree in the Department of Computer
Science at City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. His research
interests include autonomous driving, vehicle-to-vehicle collaborative
perception.
Haonan An received his B.S. degree in Telecommunication Engineering
from Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China,
and his M.S. degree from the School of Electrical and Electronic Engi-
neering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore. He is currently
pursuing a Ph.D. in the Department of Computer Science at City Uni-
versity of Hong Kong. His research interests are focused on AI security,
generative models, and collaborative perception.
Y uang Zhang is currently a Ph. D. student in the Department of Civil
and Environmental Engineering, University of Washington, Seattle, WA,
USA. He obtained the Bachelor and Master’s degree in the Department
of Automation, Tsinghua University. Mr. Zhang has published papers in
IEEE ICRA, IEEE IST and COTA ICTP , etc. His research interests lie in
the area of Intelligent transportation.
Jingjing Wang (S’14-M’19-SM’21) received his B.S. degree in Elec-
tronic Information Engineering from Dalian University of Technology,
Liaoning, China in 2014 and the Ph.D. degree in Information and
Communication Engineering from Tsinghua University, Beijing, China in
2019, both with the highest honors. From 2017 to 2018, he visited the
Next Generation Wireless Group chaired by Prof. Lajos Hanzo, Univer-
sity of Southampton, UK. Dr. Wang is currently an associate professor
at School of Cyber Science and Technology, Beihang University, and
also a researcher at Hangzhou Innovation Institute, Beihang University,
Hangzhou, China. His research interests include AI enhanced next-
generation wireless networks, swarm intelligence and confrontation. He
has published over 100 IEEE Journal/Conference papers. Dr. Wang was
a recipient of the Best Journal Paper Award of IEEE ComSoc Technical
Committee on Green Communications & Computing in 2018, the Best
Paper Award of IEEE ICC and IWCMC in 2019.
Hangcheng Cao is currently a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of
Computer Science, City University of Hong Kong. He obtained the Ph.D.
degree in the College of Computer Science and Electronic Engineer, Hu-
nan University, China, in 2023. He studied as a joint PhD student in the
School of Computer Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological
University, Singapore, in 2022. He has published papers in IEEE S&P ,
ACM Ubicomp/IMWUT, IEEE INFOCOM, IEEE TMC, IEEE ICDCS, ACM
MobiCom Workshop, ACM ToSN, IEEE Communications Magazine, etc.
His research interests lie in the area of IoT security.
Xianhao Chen received the B.Eng. degree in electronic information
from Southwest Jiaotong University in 2017, and the Ph.D. degree in
electrical and computer engineering from the University of Florida in
2022. He is currently an assistant professor with the Department of
Electrical and Electronic Engineering, the University of Hong Kong. He
received the 2022 ECE graduate excellence award for research from the
University of Florida. His research interests include wireless networking,
edge intelligence, and machine learning.
Y uguang Fang (S’92, M’97, SM’99, F’08) received the MS degree
from Qufu Normal University, China in 1987, a PhD degree from Case
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA, in 1994, and a
PhD degree from Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts, USA in
1997. He joined the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
at University of Florida in 2000 as an assistant professor, then was
promoted to associate professor in 2003, full professor in 2005, and
distinguished professor in 2019, respectively. Since August 2022, he
has been the Chair Professor of Internet of Things with the Department
of Computer Science at City University of Hong Kong. Prof. Fang re-
ceived many awards including the US NSF CAREER Award (2001), US
ONR Y oung Investigator Award (2002), 2018 IEEE Vehicular Technol-
ogy Outstanding Service Award, IEEE Communications Society AHSN
Technical Achievement Award (2019), CISTC Technical Recognition
Award (2015), and WTC Recognition Award (2014), and 2010-2011
UF Doctoral Dissertation Advisor/Mentoring Award. He held multiple
professorships including the Changjiang Scholar Chair Professorship
(2008-2011), Tsinghua University Guest Chair Professorship (2009-
2012), University of Florida Foundation Preeminence Term Professor-
ship (2019-2022), and University of Florida Research Foundation Pro-
fessorship (2017-2020, 2006- 2009). He served as the Editor-in-Chief
of IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology (2013-2017) and IEEE
Wireless Communications (2009-2012) and serves/served on several
editorial boards of journals including Proceedings of the IEEE (2018-
present), ACM Computing Surveys (2017-present), ACM Transactions
on Cyber-Physical Systems (2020-present), IEEE Transactions on Mo-
bile Computing (2003-2008, 2011-2016, 2019-present), IEEE Trans-
actions on Communications (2000-2011), and IEEE Transactions on
Wireless Communications (2002-2009). He served as the Technical
Program CoChair of IEEE INFOCOM’2014. He is a Member-at-Large of
the Board of Governors of IEEE Communications Society (2022-2024)
and the Director of Magazines of IEEE Communications Society (2018-
2019). He is a fellow of ACM, IEEE, and AAAS.